Murder can rear its head in the most inappropriate places- weddings,
cocktail parties, the theatre-even in your own home. Killers, it seems, have
utter disdain for social convention and proper manners. Ironically, the most
unfortunate aspect of a grisly murder is not the loss of a loved one, but the
burden of social responsibility and proper behavior the survivors must bear.
There are questions of etiquette, accusations to make and deny puzzlement
about proper dress and ironclad alibis to fuss over. The potential for social
blunder is immense. Unless, of course, you are prepared to meet the challenges
with finesse and sensitivity.
Read MURDER AND MODERN MANNERS and you'll soon be in complete
command of even the most vile affairs. You will waltz through the proceedings
while others crawl and weep. You will learn to integrate the dark
underbelly of the criminal pathos into your subconscious. You will learn to
deny even the most wellfounded accusations. You will slander your own best
friends without compunction. And, should circumstances deem it necessary, you
will learn to graciously accept life imprisonment without remorse. And without
parole.

CHAPTER ONE
Accepting an invitation to a murder.
The thoughtful guest.
An invitation should be answered promptly in writing using
the third person. For instance, you, Mr. Charles Edwards, would
reply: "Mr. Charles Edwards thanks Mr. and Mrs. Armstrong for
their kind invitation to the ghastly murder to be held at Armstrong
Manor on Saturday, the 30th of June, and has great pleasure in
accepting."
This formal reply is often accompanied by a more personal
handwritten note that can be included in the envelope with your
acceptance. (See Why a written reply?)
The importance of punctuality.
Since you may be the unfortunate guest of honor, your
presence might make the difference between a fabulously
successful homicide and a merely great party. Under no
circumstances, however, should you reply using the pre-printed
card that accompanies the invitation. It only convinces the host of
your pedestrian upbringing and propels him or other guests
towards more heinous behavior on the night of the party.
Why a written reply?
In recent years, the telephone has nearly eliminated the
courtesy of a written reply. This is wrong.
A written reply, especially a fond note, gives blood-hungry
investigators a bit of meaningful physical evidence. For example,
the victim might be found lying dead with your note in his pocket.
And if you've made that note temptingly personal, as suggested in
the first part of this chapter, you've assured yourself the distinction
of "prime suspect." Something like this might be nice:
"Dearest, I long to see you again. There has been too much
between us these past few years." With this note, you might be
perceived as an old lover with a vengeance. Or the police might
infer that your sweet message was enough to drive an already
distraught victim over the edge, making suicide a viable
possibility.
Now, had you replied with a simple telephone call, none of
this would have been possible. There would be no scathing
rumors, no heated court bat-ties. No allure.

Special considerations.
Once you've opted to attend the party, some background work
must be accomplished. Make your acceptance known among your
friends and neighbors. Describe in detail your past tempestuous
affairs with the host (or hostess), real or imagined. Visit a gun
shop and purchase several boxes of ammunition and inquire
lovingly about "that little snub-nosed .38 that would be great to
have around for special occasions."
Make it clear that your intentions for attending are more
complex and sordid than anyone's reason for attending a party
could possibly be. Put tantalizing images in people's minds, and
you've assured yourself a sensational headline in the following
day's newspaper: MODEL CITIZEN TURNS KILLER!
Imagine if you were forced to bear the embarrassment of
unflattering press coverage like this: "He was a perfectly normal
fellow, quite quiet and reserved. He rarely went out; I think he
was a bit of a wallflower." With a bit of pre-planning, you can
have your neighbors describing you like this: "He was absolutely
dashing and reckless. We called him 'Hollywood.' Some of the
stories he told me about his love affairs were quite racy. An
exciting fellow; I guess he just had a side to him that most normal
people never experience."

CHAPTER TWO
What to wear (men)
Neckwear.
The most important part of a man's outfit is his tie. Besides its
utility as a strangling tool, it says not only who you are, but how
much abuse you're willing to take. Finely crafted silk, while
appropriate at most parties, can be detrimental to a murder.
This becomes painfully obvious when a detective arrives and
grasps you firmly by the tie in preparation for beating a confession
out of you. Most law enforcement veterans prefer suspects to wear
heavy wrinkle-proof rayon-dacron blends that won't look tattered
and shopworn after a session of serious interrogation.
Should an officer clutch your expensive but frail Sulka Silkieor
even worse, a clip-on-and jerk it vigorously, it may come apart
in his hands. The policeman then becomes disturbed and severe.
You're inviting a kick in the shins from his canoe-sized, insulated,
oil-resistant clodhoppers-a fate that can be avoided by a few
minutes of foresight when choosing your tie.
The Suit
Like tie selection, the choice of a suit is a matter of
practicality. You'll be spending quite a lot of time on the floor of a
cold jail cell rolled up in the fetal position. So you'll want a suit
that is both warm and durable. Convenience dictates a wash-andwear
three-piece business suit. You may be wearing it for 48,
maybe 72 hours in the slammer, so get something that will still
look fresh when they take you to court for the arraignment. Dark
colors, usually burgundy or a chocolate brown, are good for hiding
cell grime and blood. No well-bred suspect can afford to wear
anything less.
Smart shoes.
High-top Naugahyde wing-tips are both functional and stylish.
The steel-toed models, while sometimes hard to find, are ideal for
self-defense in the lockup. They work as well as policemen's
clodhoppers, yet they add an element of sophistication to even the
most mundane outfit. Again, color is important. ^ burgundy or dark
brown masks blood stains much better than a pair of suede saddle
shoes.

CHAPTER THREE
What to wear (women)
The evening dress. When selecting a gown, never
underestimate the suspicious nature of the authorities. You may be
accused, arrested and taken downtown for a sun-tanning session
under a very powerful heat lamp. So dress accordingly.
Most women prefer something that gives them an innocent, demure
look. A loose-fitting wrap or chemise is comfortable and cool, yet it
belies the presence of the high-powered weapons that many women like
to carry in metropolitan environs. The perfect solution for the occasion.
Jewelry.
Nothing catches eyes and turns heads like a vault of rare gems worn
by an attractive woman. However, when there's a murderer about, the
last thing a woman wants is attention. One need only consider the violent
ends met by such diamond-studded beauties as Czarina Alexandra and
Marie Antoinette.
Here again, let form follow function. Let the lessons learned by
others serve as your precedents. When you seek to make a statement
with your ornaments, say it with paste-the gaudier the better. Fake opals
the size of walnuts, brooches that resemble peanut brittle during a
nuclear meltdown, any Cub Scout arts-and-crafts project-gimcrack of
this ilk, too long overlooked by the trendsetters of High Society, is de
rigeur as regards the lady for whom being the hit of the party is
secondary to getting home in one piece. Not only will your gewgaws
discourage the killer intent on robbery, they'll prove more effective than
mace in repulsing any jealous ex-lover, scorned admirer or sex slayer
with even an inkling of fashion sense. Remember, when you prefer not
to make the Society pages at the expense of making the obituaries, junk
jewelry is a girl's best friend.
Shoes.
You can't run very swiftly in high heels. But then, you can't kick
very effectively with sneakers. A sensible solution is to seek out a pair of
Italian-designer jogging shoes. These combine a comfortable fiat crepe
sole with a toe that resembles the tip of a cross-country ski.

CHAPTER FOUR
Conversation, Interrogation, Incarceration.
Opening conversational gambits.
The first art of a good conversationalist is the ability to put
people at ease. Once you've accomplished this, you can begin to
make good conversation. Your job as a pacifier and confidante is
doubly complicated by the victim's knowledge of his or her
impending doom. How does one allay the fears of a hapless
murder victim?
You might start with a flourish of light-hearted foolery. Try
hiding in the coat closet and scaring the daylights out of the victim
as he opens the door to hang his coat. Or try a more conventional
and earnest approach. Explain who you are: "Good evening, I'm
Charles Edwards. I'm an emergency room surgeon. Have you ever
been in an emergency room on Saturday night?" Now that you've
got the conversation started, let it follow its natural course.
Practice is the best way to polish your conversational skills.
Many beginners have difficulty at first. But rest assured, it's not
really as important as you might think. After all, the victim will
soon be dead. So if you fail to calm his fears, it is not going to
matter anyway.

Interrogation:
Chatting with the police.
Yes Sir! Authorities, like royalty, should be treated with
deference. Always refer to them as Sir, Ma'am, Officer, or Your
Highness. All questions should be answered with a humble "Yes,
sir," or "No, ma'am." And only under the most stressful situation
should you direct questions back at your interrogator-when a gun
is pointed at your head, for example.
The art of a good conversationalist is the ability to "lighten
up" the atmosphere at times like these. There are a few simple and
time-tested rules to follow. 1. The order of questioning should
start with family-related matters. 2. Once the "ice has been
broken," the subject should be either sports or sex. 3. Never ask
authority figures about their jobs or salaries. This is considered
déclassé and invites additional charges of bribery and slander.
A proven example.
Imagine for a moment that you have been arrested by the
police. You are face down on a plush ballroom floor, the officer's
knee rests firmly on your kidneys and his .357 Magnum is pointed
at the base of your cerebellum. Light conversation might improve
your situation. "So, sir, I trust that the wife and young ones are
doing well?" He jabs the nose of his gun deeper into your skull.
Don't be alarmed. You've "broken the ice," so move on to the
next subject.
"Say, officer, I'm certain you couldn't have missed that slugfest
of an Orioles game last night!"
The magic has begun to work. Watch as the officer takes his
gun from your neck, grabs it by the barrel and cuffs you firmly across
the knee cap with the finely oiled walnut grip of his beloved
pistol.
There now, you've managed to get even the most ruthless
authority to drop his gun from its threatening position! You've
played him into your hand, and you're on your way towards a close
friendship with a person who, only a few moments earlier, was a
bitter enemy.
Patience, practice and perception; nothing can replace these
three keys to successful conversation.
Comfortable incarceration.
The gang's all here! Let your memory drift back to the days
of youth. Whether you're a man or woman, from the city or country,
you must certainly have fond memories of the long summer days of
your childhood. Prison is a throwback to those long lost days. You
never have to work if you don't want to, you can play basketball
and lift weights all day, and when you need the close
companionship of a friend, there is always someone there.
Someone who sympathizes with your plight. Someone who'll set
you up. A good prison is just like a poorly run summer camp.
The secret of successful incarceration is connections. Upon
arrival you should watch the other inmates closely. See who
dominates and who submits. Then align yourself with the bullies.
You'll always be assured of the best food and drink. And the best
seats in the house for inter-prison boxing matches.

Prison projects.
After two or three years in a maximum security prison, you'll
become more reflective. You've got "time to kill," as they say, and
you'll want to develop some of those skills that you never had time
for as an overworked free adult.
The key to selecting the right pursuits is to choose those that
show the greatest signs of rehabilitation, or those that will
supplement your meagre weekly income as a license-plate maker.
Poetry can be a wonderfully sensitive medium for expressing
your remorse and anguish. The study of law will help you improve
your oratory skills, a clear benefit when you make vehement pleas
to the prison parole board. Writing books can also be quite
rewarding: the first eight editions of this book were all highly
successful and sold particularly well among guilt-ridden liberals.
But perhaps the wisest choice is painting. Prisoners are perceived
as having great depth of repressed artistic genius. There are
literally thousands of deep-pocketed dilettantes who are willing to
pay a fortune for prison art. Especially if the work is being done
by prisoners with a background of violent crime.

A FINAL THOUGHT
Preparedness.
In these few pages, we have touched lightly on the subjects
that have, for centuries, remained nebulous and unsettled. Now that
you have a working basis for confronting murder and its manyfaceted
elements, it's time to move ahead. It's time to seek out a
party that promises to be fraught with wickedness and deceit and
to plunge into it with vigor. Only then can you truly appreciate the
appropriateness of this lesson. Only then will you be able to
conduct yourself in a manner befitting a homicide SUSPECT.
The end.
About the Author.
Jane Darling Worthington lives in Maryland and South
America. Ms. Worthington was educated at the Emily Post
Extension University in Ghanzi, Botswana, Retenue Academe in
Clambridge, Massachusetts and The Attica Reformation Institute
in Attica, New York. Ms. Worthington is currently at work on her
new book, Death without Commitment.
About the Illustrator
Alan E. Cober, artist, illustrator and social critic, had his
own ideas about SUSPECT and Murder and Modern Manners.
And since he's one of today's most widely acclaimed graphic
artists, we asked Alan to put those ideas onto paper for this
SUSPECT package. He did.
Alan's name and works are well-known in graphic art circles
worldwide. His work has appeared in TIME, LIFE, NEWSWEEK,
INSIDE SPORTS and SPORTS ILLUSTRATED. He's illustrated
books, record albums, advertisements and anything else that
calls for extraordinary interpretation and execution. In doing
all this, he has collected countless awards and kudos. We hope
you enjoy what he has done here.

--

Open the door to the manor house
on Ashcroft Farm ...
and step into a world of
elegance, deception and murder!
From the crystal chandelier in the dining room
and the magnificent fieldstone fireplace in the main
ballroom to the sumptuous leather-volumed library,
you're taken aback by the timelessness of this century-
old southern mansion and its grounds.
Everywhere there are antiques and mementos
of Ashcroft's illustrious equine history. Here, some of
the nation's greatest thoroughbreds have been sired
... Mr. Cyrus, Stampede, Veronicana and others.
But on this Halloween night, there's something
different about Ashcroft's atmosphere. It's murderous.

You're a newspaper reporter and a friend of the
hostess. You've come to party with the world's most
celebrated personalities: politicians, entertainers,
royalty, power brokers and the idle rich. But now
the evening has been spoiled by a deadly interloper
... and fingers are pointing at you.
You have but a few hours before you're arrested.
Fail to prove your innocence, and you'll be convicted
of murder and imprisoned. There's precious little
time to unmask the homicidal guest-or guests. And
if you fail, you've got a lifetime to ponder your mistakes
in a maximum security jail cell at the Maryland
State Penitentiary.
Go ahead-enjoy the party!
The Table of Contents for the manual is on
page 11. Read it to find out what you need to know
before you start the story.

--

King's Point Reality
Specializing in finer homes since 1668
William Cochrane
Owner

One Saddle Oak Square
Rapppanoc, Maryland 23393
555-7721

Veronica -- Please call me ASAP.
Don't do something you'll regret.
Bill

--

Costumes Unlimited
Cash
Cowboy costume with gunbelt
Date: 10/29
$65

--

You are cordially invited to the gala Halloween Ball
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Wellman request the pleasure of your company at the Halloween Ball on the thirty-first of October at half after eight o'clock.
Ashcroft Farm

R.S.V.P.
318 Oak Manor Lane
Crofton

Dearest... It has been too long since we last talked. Please do try to come to the part.
There are many things I have to tell you.
Until then, Veronica.

--

The Washington Representative
from the desk of
Earl Davis Jackson, Editor

Since you've already been invited to this big society bash,
why not go ahead and make a stay out of it for our Sunday living section?
From the looks of this outside, there may be an angle that hasn't been covered.
Perhaps... The Old Hunt Club types fleeing the onslought of <?>. Could paly it either stright or humorous depending on what you get.
Enjoy, Earl Davis J

--

MARYLAND
R A M B L E R
THERE GOES THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
As suburbia spreads out, Maryland's Blue Bloods move on.
ON THE FIRST SATURDAY OF EACH month,
privileged equestrians from Montgomery and neighboring
counties gather at the Eaton Hills Hunt Club dressed in scarlet
coats, white cravats and black velvet bowlers. At precisely
8:00 a.m., a copper horn sounds a muted but distinct tune
signalling the hunters to mount their horses. On cue, 40 eager
hounds sing out their own baleful music. Pulling eagerly at
their chains, they, too, are ready for another Eaton Hills fox
hunt to begin.
"Very soon all this will be gone," says former Maryland
Senator Daniel Horn, standing in a dewy field on a crisp
October morning presiding over this Saturday's hunt. "Only 20
years ago, the Allison Club (a former thoroughbred farm, now
defunct) bordered us to the east, and Sharp's Hill lay to the
south." Horn points off to the south, and one can see the roofs
of homes interspersed through groves of oak and pine; there are
not a lot of homes, not inexpensive homes, but homes
nonetheless.
"There was plenty of acreage and plenty of solitude then,"
he says. "But now look at it. There are too many people, too
many houses. In a few years, we'll be staging hunts in people's
back-yards. Or not at all!"
BY SUE ANNE FRANK

--

The Allison Club, Sharp's Hill and a handful of
other private sanctuaries for the rich--once
sprawling farms of hundreds, even thousands of
acres--have been replaced by "planned
communities," as club members derisively call
them. Estates formerly belonging to some of the
nation's wealthiest families have been
transformed into two- and three-acre plots for
the upper middle class who have graduated
from the fashionable suburbs of Bethesda and
McLean to the more pastoral climes of
Montgomery County.
New projects in this part of Montgomery
County by no means cater to the impecunious.
Prices for new homes start at around $250,000
and go to over a million dollars. Still, the old
and sometimes intractable super-rich find it
hard to coexist with their new neighbors. Begrudgingly,
many of them move on; and as they
go, they leave more and more of the old estates
open to new development.
The new money.
Real estate developers such as Montgomery
County's William Cochrane, a firebrand
entrepreneur who buys land from the wealthiest
and sells to the wealthy, have adjusted
comfortably to the new order that the past 10
years have wrought. Sitting behind the wheel of
his vintage 1938 Dodge "Woodie" overseeing
the survey and division of his latest acquisition,
the Old Sewell House, he seems oblivious to the
slow-boiling controversy that surrounds
him.
"It's very simple," says Cochrane.
"My clients are looking for a few acres
and solitude. They don't need half a
county; one or two acres will do. So they
come to me. I have half a dozen properties
now under development. The people
who sold me this property sold it
because they grew weary of fighting the
inevitable. They realize how close DC
has become. They know their property is
worth a fortune. They know more and
more people are coming, like it or not.
And they know that if they can't get used
to having neighbors, they're going to have
to move. When they make that decision,
they come to me. I pay top dollar, and I
charge top dollar."
Cochrane has no romantic illusions
about the Maryland Hunt Country. He
plays a numbers game. And he often
wins. But lately, Cochrane is beginning
to feel the heat of a handful of old residents
who refuse to be bullied and
bought out.
A group of old-money landowners
has formed a coalition to save what's left
of the Hunt Country life; they are making
no concessions to Cochrane and others
like him. Their weapons? Money and
influence.

The old money.
1980 Census records indicate that
Montgomery County's median household
income is just over $70,000. Compared
to the national average of $20,000, this
makes Montgomery County one of the
five wealthiest areas in the nation. Interestingly,
the greatest concentration of this
vast wealth lies in the hands of perhaps
20 or 30 families like the Ashcroft-
Wellmans.
The power and influence of this elite
group of landowners extends far beyond
the county line. Records on file at the
Montgomery County Courthouse list at
least nine influential national legislators

Seneca Creek Estate, Montgomery
County Estate of nearly 40 acres. The
Estate (circa 1824) consists of two brick
Federal houses, with numerous
nineteenth century dependency dwellings
in fine condition. Ideal for the
discriminating buyer in search of
solitude. Price: 2.5 million. Call 555-
7721 or write:
KING'S POINT
R E A L T Y
One Saddle Oak Square
Rappanoc, Maryland 23393

"IN PURSUIT OF THE EXTRAORDINARY"
OUR NEW EVENTING SADDLE.
The tradition of English Saddlery comes to
life in Supple's custom-crafted tack for the
discriminating horseman. Come in and see
our new American-made Eventing Saddle.
This saddle features a perfectly balanced
seat, made possible by our reinforced "Entracore"
springtree. Availablie in different tree
widths to meet the demands of every rider
Supple Saddlery
11221 Old Church Road, Rappanoc, Maryland
555-9984

--

The Keyhole -- By Watson Latham
Veronica's Bash "What is Halloween
without the pumpkins?" asked Veronica
Ashcroft-Wellman as she surveyed the
unloading of a thousand of the 30-pound orbs
onto the front lawn of her verdant Montgomery
County estate.
The jack-o-lanterns
will be part
of an elaborate
prop for one of
the country's
most fabulous
Halloween balls
to be held next
week at Ashcroft
Farm, Veronica's
ancestral home. Veronica: Party Queen
The annual ball, a 110-year-old
Ashcroft tradition, draws hundreds of
dignitaries from the worlds of art, business
and politics. Last year's guests included
Senator Lance Duncan, actor Robert
McCarron, Katarina Ostrovsky of
Metropolitan Ballet fame and British
ambassador Sir Edward Black. And if
Veronica has her way, this year's party will
be even more spectacular. It promises to be
second to none for sheer opulence.
Guests will dine on the rare delicacies
of French Nouvelle Cuisine prepared by
Master Chef Louis LeClerc of Washington's
Ma Maison Restaurant.
They'll be entertained by the famous
Foggy Bottom Band under the direction of
Vince Goodman, who, by the way, was a
long-time friend of Veronica's late father
Cyrus Ashcroft III. And they'll come
bedecked in costumes that make
Hollywood's most garish productions seem
pale by comparison. To all this, add the
setting of Ashcroft.
The farm, a sprawling sanctuary of
pine and oak forest and pastureland,
commands over 120 acres of Montgomery
County's most idyllic vistas.
Dominating all this is Ashcroft Manor
house, built by Veronica's great-great
grandfather in 1872. The farm is one of the
county's last remaining colonial estates of
this grandeur, and Veronica has maintained
it in the finest tradition.
"I have a vested interest in this
countryside," says Veronica. "Once a year I
like to share the magic of this place with my
friends. And what better time for magic titan
Halloween?"
Magic may be just what Veronica
needs, because once the idle chatter has
waned, talk is sure to turn to the sweeping
changes that are afoot in Montgomery
County.
The director of Ashcroft Trust and a
close personal associate of the Ashcroft
family, Colonel Robert Marston, talked to
our Keyhole reporter about those changes.
"Of course land is an
issue in Montgomery
County these days.
Veronica makes no
secret of her desire to
stop the influx of new
residents to the county.
She sees it as being the
only way of preserving
her way of life.
"The many friends
and relatives who will be attending this
year's party are fully supportive of her
position. They, too, want Ashcroft to endure
as the tradition it has grown to be in the past
century. That will certainly be a topic of
conversation at the party."
The Halloween Ball at Ashcroft--
regardless of the 'political weather' --
promises to be a grand old time. For how
many more years that will remain true, one
can only guess.

