M.C.S. STARCROSS 02-28-2186
First entry in the new log! Finally got
the loans to finance the purchasing of
my own mining ship. They were a little
reluctant about it at first, what with me
never having actually found a black
hole. That is, never having found one
that didn't already belong to someone
else, to put the best light on It. I think
the terms were a little steep: after all,
I'll pay them back. They didn't have to
reserve the right to grow a clone to
work for them
for "20 years and a day." Bankers are
so conservative. I suppose that's to
be expected from computers. I'm not
prejudiced; some of my best friends
are programmed.
Once I got a loan, I took possession
of the STARCROSS. A sweet little ship.
Only eight years old, been on only three
previous mining trips. The guy at Wheat
City Used Transportation said the
previous owner was a nice little old lady
who retired after her last trip she found
a 1.5 gigawatt black hole out near
Saturn, of all places! I knew then it was a
lucky ship.

M.C.S. STARCROSS 03-04-2186
Not too much difficulty getting the ship
moved to Ceres Spaceport. Of course, the
hauler didn't show up on time, but that's
what you'd expect.
The ship is well equipped for the money.
I kept most of the program modules in the
ship's computer and updated only a few of
them. I got the inertial guidance overhauled
and checked out the mass detector myself. I
wish I could afford the I/O options to have a
fully integrated system. Blast off tomorrow!

M.C.S. STARCROSS 03-05-2186
Got underway a little late, due to a problem
in the fuel tanks. I spent the time stocking
up on new entertainment tapes--some really
nice ones, too, but kind of expensive. So
much time prospecting is spent waiting for
something to happen.

M.C.S. STARCROSS 03-28-2186
Underway less than four weeks
and I'm about to go crazy! First, the
entertainment tapes were mislabelled. It's all
highbrow stuff like operas and lectures.
Leather Goddesses of Phobos was really
something about the history of the Terran
Union. What a rip-off! I suppose I can always
talk to the computer.
I can't stand those tapes. I'll save them for
later in the voyage when I'm really desperate. I'll
play games with the computer to keep amused
that way.

M.C.S. STARCROSS 04-02-2186
I'm tempted to dismantle the computer.
First, instead of a smooth, chummy voice, it
sounds like a uranium recycler that's dropped a
critical mass on its grasping extensors. Well,
maybe it's not that bad, but it's really surly.
Insubordinate, too. I tried playing chess with it,
but it was too good and made lots of nasty
comments about my pawn structure. So I told it
to play on an easier level, and it refused! It said
it was boring enough playing a human without
giving away the game.

M.C.S. STARCROSS 04-15-2186
Possible black hole today! The mass detector
went off. The alarm is really loud and practically
sent me through the bulkhead. Even the
computer complained about it, but you can't turn
it down. Anyway, it looks like a big mass: at a
good area, too near the trailing Trojan point of
Jupiter. Hasn't been prospected out yet, and
there's always something new there thanks to
Jupe's big mass.
Off we go!

M.C.S. STARCROSS 04-16-2186
Turns out it was just a nickel-iron asteroid. It
was pretty big one, but with Asian Steel
mining at full capacity, there’s no room for the
little guy. Their margin is tiny per ton, and they
can bring back really big chunks.
In fact, when I got closer to the asteroid, I
discovered it had an Asian Steel transponder
on it already. The computer said it knew it
was nickel-iron all along, but I think it’s just
putting on airs.

M.C.S. STARCROSS 05-12-2186
Another false alarm. This one was nickel-iron,
too.

M.C.S. STARCROSS 05-23-2186
Finally beat the computer at chess!
A really neat combination, too. What a poor
sport! It says I cheated and won’t talk to me
anymore.

M.C.S. STARCROSS 05-29-2186
Computer still not talking to me, beyond
accepting routine ship commands. Even then
it sounds particularly sullen. In the meantime,
I've invented 11 new forms of five-suit
solitaire. Unfortunately, I haven't won any of
them yet.

M.C.S. STARCROSS 05-30-2186
Another asteroid. This one is mostly uranium.
Gives a big blip on the mass detector, it's so
heavy. Probably ought to mark it for removal.
The Patrol will be pleased, even if the reward
isn't commensurate. I could try smuggling it to
the Ganymedean Insurgents, but the penalty
for being caught with unlicensed uranium is
20 years on an organ farm. I'd prefer to have
my original kidneys until they wear out, thank
you.

M.C.S. STARCROSS 06-11-2186
A micro-meteorite pierced the hull today! It
was pretty exciting, but I fixed it like a pro. I
had to put on my suit, get out the patch kit
and patch the bulkhead. The hole was almost
big enough to put my finger in! The patch
looks like a big wad of chewing gum, but it
gets really hard. Happy to report that after I
repressurized, the computer started talking to
me again. Mostly Insults, but better than
nothing.

M.C.S. STARCROSS 06-23-2186
I found a black hole for real today!
Unfortunately, someone else's
transponder started up about two hours ago,
and now he's warning me off in no uncertain
terms.
That does it. I'm going to try something
really different. Too many prospectors around
here. Nobody prospects in the inner system
anymore, but I will, and my luck's going to
change!
In toward Mars!

--

THERE IS SOMETHING OUT THERE.
You're a deep-space prospector
aboard the M.C.S. Starcross, a one-person
vessel outfitted for the
discovery and mining of black holes.
You've invested all you have and
then some into a search for a dream,
a dream you hold in common with
every miner since the first human
who panned for gold-the dream
of the really big strike. And your
patience and persistence are about
to be paid back in aces. For in just
a few moments, you're going to
discover the biggest find of all timea
titanic starship from the far edge of
the Galaxy. Or perhaps ...
SOMETHING-OR SOMEONE-HAS
JUST FOUND YOU.
An adventure beyond any in human
experience Is unfolding. You must
gain entry to the extraordinary spacecraft
and encounter its inhabitants--a
bizarre collection of life forms from
every corner of the Milky Way. You
must acquire what help you can from
them and fend off whatever harm
they send your way. But most of all,
you must exert every ounce of your
courage, cunning and skills to unravel
the mystery the great ship poses
and meet the incredible challenge it
bears. And your very life is riding on
your success or f allure. because ..
SOMETHING IS WATCHING YOUR EVERY MOVE.
The Table of Contents for the manual
is on page 11. Take a look at it to determine
what you should read before
you start the story.

--

M. C. S. STARCROSS
MASS DETECTOR OUTPUT
TIME - 2186 : 104 : 58923
VALID UNTIL - 2186: 104 : 59287
UNCHARTED MASS COORDINATES
Name Range Theta Phi
UM08 150 : 110 : 017°
UM12 100 : 345 : 107°
UM24 100 : 285 : 087°
UM28 250 : 45 : 178°
UM31 150 : 105 : 067°
UM52 175 : 165 : 035°
UM70 100 : 135 : 101°
UM91 50 : 15 : 121 °
ASTEROID CORRDINATES
Name Range Theta Phi
AX01 200 :240 : 134°
AX32 125 :240 : 105°
AX71 125 : 180 : 047°
AX87 125 : 75 : 102°


INHABITED ASTEROID CORRDINATES
Name Range Theta Phi
AB40 250 : 300 : 022°
SHIP CORRDINATES
Name Range Theta Phi
US75 175 : 135 :034°
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE:
TO REACH YOUR DESTINATION, ENTER THE
THREE CORRDINATES INTO YOUR NAVIGATION
COMPUTER BY TYPING:
COMPUTER, RANGE IS (VALUE). THETA IS (VALUE).
PHI IS (VALUE).
AS A SAFETY PEA TURE, YOUR COMPUTER WILL NOT
INIT A TE A NEW NAVIGATIONAL PROGRAM
WITHOUT CONFIRMATION. YOU CAN DO THIS BY TYPING:
COMPUTER, CONFIRM NEW COURSE.

--

BUREAU OF EXTRA-SOLAR INTELLIGENCE
TO: All Spacecraft Owners and Operators
FROM: Bureau of Extra-Solar Intelligence
SUBJECT: Encounters with Aliens
DATE: February 8, 2132
As of this writing, no registered spacecrafts have documented any encounters with alien life forms.
Although sightings of unidentified objects have been reported, none have proved reliable.
Nevertheless, this Bureau believes that alien life forms do exist and will enter our solar system within
the next millennium. This belief is based in part on the fact that repetitious signals have been received
at the Arecibo and Pulkovo observatory dishes since the late twentieth century. The source of these
signals--seven dashes followed by either three or 11 dashes--has not been established, but clearly a
highly advanced civilization is sending them.
Should you or any of your crew members have an encounter with any. alien life form, notify your
local space safety patrol as soon as possible. Extensive research suggests that there is a 99 percent
chance that an alien will have only peaceful intentions. Do not--repeat, DO NOT--hurt or kill any alien
unless it is a life-or-death situation for you or a member of your crew.

--

We have surmised that any alien will be equipped with sensory organs, physical manipulators, a
method of locomotion, and a method for gathering energy and eliminating waste heat and (most likely)
chemicals. Note that alien life forms are likely to have evolved under extremely different conditions
than have existed on Earth. They may not be able to perceive the same physical and electromagnetic
frequencies as humans. They may not consist of a carbon-based chemistry, and their metabolisms may
not be chemical in nature. The atmosphere of your ship may be poisonous to them, and vice versa.
It is possible that an alien race will be similar to ours in appearance. However, do not let appearances
fool you; gestures and facial expressions are cultural in origin and are likely to mean different things.
A smile, for instance, may be interpreted as a baring of teeth, forewarning attack. If you do encounter
an alien, please remain calm and be very careful. Remember: the first alien encounter will be an
historic event far surpassing Columbus's discovery of America. The responsibility of being
ambassador for all Earth is very great, but the rewards for success will be greater.

--

