                 Through strange, savage zones your way will be shown
                          by the magical stone called:

                                   Wishbringer

                                       by
                          "Professor" Brian Moriarty


                              Interactive Fiction
                                    Fantasy
                              Introductory Level



                         Instruction Manual & "Feelies"




[The front cover shows a pair of hands cupped together, holding the Wishbringer
stone. Wishbringer is glowing a bright white, but as the glow spreads out over
the fingers, it gives them a pinkish-purple appearance.]



--------

Specially delivered inside this and every WISHBRINGER package: your WISHBRINGER
disk, enchanted stone that glows in the dark, mysterious sealed envelope, postal
map of your home town, and The Legend of Wishbringer.

[The disk, envelope and the map are pictured as having spilled out of a dark
gray canvas mail bag out onto a wooden table with a rough surface. The enchanted
stone, Wishbringer, is not in the picture.]


It's an ordinary day in your ordinary little town, and you've been performing
your ordinary mail clerk's duties in an altogether ordinary way. But there's
something quite extraordinary in today's mail. It's a ransom note for a
kidnapped cat, and it will lead you through unbelievably harrowing adventures to
Wishbringer, a stone possessing undreamt-of powers. For though the note in
question is addressed to someone in your ordinary little town, it's postmarked
for Special Delivery to Parts Unknown. And its true destination is somewhere
beyond your wildest dreams, c/o the magic of Infocom's interactive fiction.

GET INSIDE A STORY. GET ONE FROM INFOCOM!
It's like waking up inside a story! Load Infocom's interactive fiction into your
computer and discover yourself at the center of a world jam-packed with
surprising twists, unique characters and original, logical, often hilarious
puzzles.

For the first time, you're more than a passive reader. You can talk to the
story, typing in full English sentences. And the story talks right back,
communicating entirely in vividly descriptive prose. What's more, you can
actually shape the story's course of events through your choice of actions. And
you have hundreds of alternatives at each step. In fact, there's so much you can
see and do, your adventure can last for weeks and even months.

To find the Infocom interactive story that's right for you, just choose any one
marked with the level of difficulty listed below that best matches your current
level of interactive skill.

Introductory: Best introduction to interactive fiction, with some built-in
hints. Written for everyone from age 9 up.

Standard: This is Infocom's most popular level of interactive fiction, enjoyed
by both first-time and experienced players.

Advanced: A greater level of challenge. Recommended for those who've already
experienced Infocom's interactive fiction.

Expert: The ultimate challenge in interactive fiction.

Then find out what it's like to get inside a story. Get one from Infocom.
Because with Infocom's interactive fiction, there's room for you on every disk.

INFOCOM
125 CambridgePark Drive
Cambridge, MA 02140

Also available for your: Apple II and Macintosh, Atari XL/XE and ST series,
Commodore 64/128 and Amiga, IBM PC and MS-DOS compatibles, Kaypro II, and many
others.

Manufactures and Printed in U.S.A.
(c) 1985 Infocom, Inc.
Warranty information enclosed.

WISHBRINGER is a trademark of Infocom, Inc.



--------

[Picture of a wooden table inside a Post Office. The table is covered with
various objects: a mechanical date stamping machine, a sponge inside a dish for
moistening stamps, two rubber bands, two rubber stamps, an envelope, several
stamps, and the introductory letter.  The stamps have the same design as the
stamp used on the Special Delivery envelope, but are in black with a pink
background instead of the dark purple with a medium purple background.  The
introductory letter is hand written on an orange-cream colored paper, and has a
somewhat rough edge along the left side from being torn off of a pad. The
letter's top edge was manufactured with a deckled (very rough) edge.]

So you want to work for the Post Office, eh? Okay, sport. Take this letter over
to the joke shop on the other side of town. And don't listen to the creepy old
dame who runs the place. She'll go on and on about black cats, trolls, magic
quests and somebody she calls the Evil One. Says she's got a rock that makes
wishes come true. Probably talks to UFOs, too.

Be polite. If she offers you a gift, don't take it... and whatever you do, don't
let her send you on any errands!

The Boss

PS: Better hurry. It's getting Dark outside.



--------

TAKE THEIR WORDS FOR IT!

"Excellent, excellent, excellent, excellent, excellent, excellent."
Bob, 39
Lyndhurst, Ohio

"I like this new style of game--who needs graphics?"
Rachel, 13
Arlington, Texas

"Your games really get you to use your thinking cap."
Larry, 12
Freehold, New Jersey

"I hate to turn the computer off."
Shirley, 34
Baltimore, Maryland

"If I go crazy or become a bum, it's all your fault. I hope you're happy. (P.S.
It's great.)"
Stu, 49
Lockport, New York

"Unlike the arcade games that litter the market, there are few copiers of
Infocom's interactive fiction. Can it be done? Probably. Can it be done as well
as Infocom does it, or better? Unlikely. With each new game, Infocom is further
entrenched in their position as manufacturer of the most unique, highest-quality
software available on the market today."
ANALOG COMPUTING magazine

"It ruined my party! Everyone was upstairs playing! (I.e., GREAT!!)"
Walter, 25
Wichita, Kansas

"We have said it again and again: Infocom can't be beat. For richness of
description, unfolding of storyline, sharpness of wit, and challenge of puzzles,
Infocom has no equal in the software business."
CREATIVE COMPUTING magazine

"Stop reading this and deliver that envelope!"
"Corky" Crisp, Postmaster
Festeron, Antharia



--------

Local History Series, No. 4

"The Legend of Wishbringer"


Reprinted by the Historical Museum of the Festeron Free Public Library

Violet Voss, Curator

[The title is printed over a background of two rectangles. The center rectangle
is lavender in color, and sits inside a larger rectangle filled with a light
lavender color. Below the title is a heart symbol, drawn in black. The inside of
the heart is filled in, but has a jagged crack running from the upper-right area
to the lower-left area. All around the heart are lines radiating outward, about
a quarter-inch in length, with longer lines at straight up, down, left and
right.

The first letter in the title, "T", is an ornamental letter. The T has been
turned into a harp, with the strings running from the vertical stroke up and to
the top-right horizontal bar. On a traditional harp, the harpist would be seated
to the right of the harp, but on this harp, Princess Morning-Star is standing on
the left side, reaching over the top of the T to pluck the strings. This
ornamental letter is in black and white.]




Festeron Town Library bookplate

12/11/63   05/14/23
01/32/64   07/07/53
01/18/70   11/12/54
10/10/88   09/20/57
03/01/96
06/31/12
10/24/19

Please take care of me... library books belong to everyone.

[The bookplate contains a drawing at the top, above the area where the check-out
dates are stamped. The drawing of the Festeron library is done in the same style
and coloring as in Zork 1's "The Great Underground Empire: A History". The
library is two stories high and resembles a castle: the entrance is straddled by
two round towers with cone-shaped roofs that are slightly taller than the main
roof, and between them and above the entrance is another tower which has a
traditional flat roof. On the second floor are two skyways at the left and right
ends of the building, but we do not see which buildings these lead to.]




Local History Series, No. 4

A Moral History, in Verse, of the MAGICK DREAM-STONE recently unearthed by the
Society of Thaumaturgic Archaeology, and commonly known as WISHBRINGER,
including a substantial body of hitherto unpublished discoveries regarding the
mystical properties of said Artifact.

[Below the text is the same broken heart drawing as was on the front cover.]



CHAPTER THE FIRST
Of Morning-Star's birth and great beauty and how she was abducted by the envious
Queen Alexis.

[The "I" that begins the text below is another ornamental letter, in color, as
are all further ornamental letters. The I stands in front of two people dressed
in hooded robes. The man on the left holds a baby in his arms, which appears to
be sleeping peacefully. The man person is bending over a cradle that contains a
surprised-looking baby. It is not clear if he has just put Queen Alexis' blind
daughter into the cradle, or whether he is about to pick Morning-Star up out of
the cradle. The cradle has a solid wooden frame and a curved base, allowing the
cradle to be rocked back and forth.]

It happened in the reign of mighty Anatinus, King of Misty Island, that there
was born into a peasant home a daughter, blessed with rare and perfect Beauty.
Morning-Star they named her; and the legend of her beauty spread through all the
kingdom, even to the court of Anatinus.

There beside the throne sat Queen Alexis, heavy-hearted. For her newborn
daughter, cursed by fate and prophecy, was sightless. Loth the Queen to look
upon her blind child's face! And how the baby Morning-Star more beautiful and
perfect, made her jealous!

Envy breedeth Evil: Queen Alexis caused the simple peasant home of Morning-Star
to burn. The sleeping family perished, all but Morning-Star, who, being rescued
by the Queen's design, became her daughter, sight restored by Prayer.

(The one true Princess, left behind to fill the vacant cradle, perished too, and
never saw her mother.)



CHAPTER THE SECOND
Of Morning-Star's coming of age, and of the many knights who sought her fair
hand in Marriage.

[The ornamental letter "T" is the same one we first encountered, but in color.]

The years were kind to Morning-Star. Her beauty blossomed like the fragrant
water-lily into full, abundant maidenhood. Anon befell her ten-and-seventh
birthday.  

Anatinus made it known that whosoever might desire to win the hand of
Morning-Star, should now come forth to claim it. To prove his worth, the groom
must first by needs fulfill a Love-Quest, of the Queen's own choosing, according
to the custom of the kingdom.

Many were the eager knights who journeyed to the royal palace, hoping there to
win the love of Princess Morning-Star. Alexis, dark with envy, watched the lusty
swains descend like vultures 'round her daughter, and vowed in secret not to let
them have her.

From the knights assembled, Six were chosen, and stood before the heartless
Queen for testing.

[In the lower right corner of the page is a large picture of Princess
Morning-Star. She is dressed in a lavender dress with blue accent ribbons. She
wears a crown of roses and a cone-shaped hat on her head. Before her kneels one
of the knights. The knight is well-armed, for he bears a knife, sword and
shield, and wears scale mail on his legs. His cloak is of a red and white
checkerboard pattern, perhaps his family's colors. Three platypuses lay at
Morning-Star's feet.



CHAPTER THE THIRD
Of the impossible Love-Quests devised by the crafty queen Alexis, and how the
six knights fared by them.

[Morning-Star has fallen to her knees, framed by the ornamental letter "O". Her
arms are spread out from her sides, her head tilted back in her anguish over the
demise of each of the knights.]

One brave knight, a lad but one-and-twenty, was sent across the sea to beg Lord
Nimbus, God of Rain, to quench the thirsting fields of Frotzen. But the God, not
sympathetic, smote his vessel with a bolt of lightning.

The second knight, a weapons-bearer, strong of limb and spirit, scaled the
mountain peak of Matter-Horn, to seek Advice from spirits. The hopes of Princess
Morning-Star fell with him.

A third knight ventured forth to try the fabled Wings of Icarus, and learn the
secret method of their Flight, to please Alexis. But alas! the joyful knight,
whilst soaring home to claim the Princess, flew into the open maw of Thermofax,
a Dragon.

Alexis sent the fourth knight deep into the Mines of Mendon, there to slay a
Grue, and drag the carcass up where all might see it. But Darkness overcame the
hapless knight, who, lost without a lamp, was soon Devoured.

Another knight, the fifth, directed by the Queen to steal the Cocoa-Nut of
Quendor, chanced upon a lair of hungry Implementors, and did not Foresee his
peril.

Lastly stood before the Queen a gentle boy, no older than the Princess.
Morning-Star liked well his beardless smile, and begged her mother not to test
his Luck to harshly. But Alexis caused the youth to spend an evening midst an
unclean Cemetery, from whence he ne'er returned; for eldritch Vapors carried him
away, and gave no reason.

[This chapter occupies two pages. At the bottom of both pages are the graves of
the six knights. In addition to the gravestone, each grave also is marked with
one or more items that the knights carried on their quests: sword, helmet,
dagger, lance and/or shield. The three platypi stand a sad and lonely vigil over
the graves.]



CHAPTER THE FOURTH
Of the Edict of Alexis, the demise of Morning-Star, and the discovery, many
years after, of a Magick Stone, called Wishbringer.

[In this ornamental letter "Q", we see Morning-Star in left profile. She is
still on her knees, but now has her face buried in her hands. The tears she is
crying are shown falling behind her. Each teardrop is many times larger than a
normal teardrop, symbolizing the depth of Morning-Star's sorrow.]

Queen Alexis cried, "Is no man in the kingdom fit to wed my only daughter? 
Methinks she must remain unmarried, then, and Virgin all her days." So it was
Written.

Morning-Star hoped death might grant her Freedom from the Edict of Alexis, by
her mother's timely passing. But the Reaper (busy elsewhere with a Plague) heard
not her praying; so Alexis lived, and laughed, and watched her daughter's beauty
fade away, and all her Wishes dwindle in her bosom.

- - -

Many kingdoms after, when the reign of Anatinus was forgotten, and the names of
Morning-Star and Queen Alexis lost in Time, there came unto the Misty Isle a
Scholar, who, amid the crumbling tombs of monarchs, chanced upon the mortal
relic of the Princess. All was Dust, except her Heart, which, hard and shrunken
to a pebble in the grave, was shining brightly with the stifled Wishes of her
lifetime.

Thus, the Magick Stone of Dreams was discovered.



CHAPTER THE FIFTH
Of the Seven Wishes, and what ye must know to invoke them.

[The final ornamental letter places the letter "S" at the top of a small hill. A
platypus stands next to a simple grave with the letters "RIP" engraved on it.
Large fluffly clouds are visible in the sky, and part of an apple tree can be
seen.]

Seven is the number of the Wishes bound into the Stone; and if ye speak a Wish,
that wish is Spent, and lost forever. Also know, that ye must hold the
Wishing-Stone within thy hands to wield its Magick. Look ye, then, upon the
Seven Wishes:

RAIN falls for only the bearer of the Stone who standeth under an Umbrella.

ADVICE may bring wise counsel to the bearer of the Stone who listeneth to
Sea-Shells.

FLIGHT shall bear the Magick-wielder swiftly home, if ye be sitting on a
Broom-Stick.

DARKNESS, blacker than the Night, shall fall across the land if Milk of Grue
thou drinkest.

FORESIGHT lifts the veil of Time, and shows the Future, but prepare thy eyes
with Glasses.

LUCK will bring good Fortune, if ye hold a Horseshoe and the Stone in thy
possession.

FREEDOM springs the dreamer from confinement, but mark well that ye first hath
eaten Candy.

[The bottom of the page shows how Morning-Star's heart hardened into the
Wishbringer. It starts out with a traditional heart symbol, drawn to indicate
that it was a three-demensional object rather than a flat picture, similar to
what a heart-shaped balloon would look like when inflated. The second part of
the picture shows the heart shrinking and turning to stone. The center still
glows with her Wishes, but now it more closely resembles the shape of an actual
human heart. The third part shows that her heart has fully turned to stone and
continued to shrink. The final portion shows that Morning-Star's heart has
shrunk to about half its original size, but now glows with a white light. This
glow is muted slighly since the heart is inside a closed red velvet pouch, but
the glow is bright enough to cause the velvet to be almost transparent.]



EPILOGUE

Now ye know the Origins and Magick of the Wishing-Stone. But know ye also, bold
Adventurer, that every problem ye encounter in thy travels may be also bested by
the spell of Logick. Exercise thy Brain, and work thy Wits! Forget ye not that
Morning-Star, a Princess, who threw away her Youth in easy Wishing, died in
vain. Let her fate be thy Warning.

Mutato nomine, de te fabula narratur.



--------

The Envelope

[The return address is simply "The Tower". The postage stamp in upper left
corner is a drawing in dark purple ink of a platypus on a medium purple
background, with two tufts of field grasses. It bears the caption of E PLATYPUS
UNUM, a play on the phrase E PLURIBUS UNUM ("out of many, one").  The value of
the stamp is 90.8, but the currency type is not specified. In between the return
address and the postage stamp, but slightly lower, are the words "SPECIAL
DELIVERY" in red with a line above and below them, stamped on the envelope by a
rubber stamp.]

[Destination address:]
Proprietor
Ye Olde Magick Shoppe
North Festeron, Antharia
23-52-1



--------

Back flap of envelope:

Important:
Don't open this envelope until the story tells you to do so.
INFOCOM



--------

The letter:

[The paper has a slightly darker tint to it. It has the same spots and fibers in
it as the envelope, but has a more deeply-textured surface running horizontally,
giving it an appearance of cloth or fabric. The writing is the same as on the
envelope--uneven and with ink spatters.]

Deliver the Magick Stone to me before the moon sets or you will never see your
cat again!

The Evil One



--------

The postal map:


Postal Zones
Festeron, Antharia
& Vicinity


Primary Postal Grid
All zones outside the Primary Postal Grid are classified Outlying Regions and
are disgnated by code no. 23-52-1.

For use by registered Antharia postal service personnel only.

[The map shows that Festeron is located on a small peninsula. Along the outer
edges are grid indicators, labeled A through E and 1 through 5, but in the
middle of the map, only 13 locations have boxes drawn around them. Across the
river to the east is the tip of an island. To the north, a covered bridge
connects Festeron to another section of land. It is at the top of a hill on this
other land area that we see the Magick Shoppe, with a trail running from the
bridge up and around the hill to the Shoppe's front door. At the southern edge
of Festeron, we see the Post Office sitting atop a smaller hill. No paved roads
leading in to Festeron from the outside world are shown on the map.]


Grid locations:

1C: South of Bridge

2B: Lookout Hill
2C: Rotary North
2D: a wooded area

3A: Lake Edge
3B: Rotary West
3C: Park
3D: Rotary East
3E: Pleasure Wharf

4B: Spooky Copse
4C: Rotary South
4D: an open area

5C: Hilltop



--------

Page 1


Instruction Manual for Wishbringer

Welcome to the world of Infocom's Interactive fiction, a world where:

* You are the hero or heroine in a story,

* You use your own thinking and imagination to guide the story from start to
finish.

* You meet other people, who may or may not help you, and

* You can go to new places, figure out mysteries and puzzles, and fight against
enemies.

In Wishbringer, you're a postal clerk in a small seaside village called
Festeron. You deliver a strange envelope to a magic shop, and discover that an
old woman's black cat has been kidnapped by "the Evil One." The old woman asks
for your help, and when you leave the magic shop, you find yourself trapped in a
nightmare world. Your once-quiet town is now full of nasty trolls, vultures,
fortress-like towers, and assorted wickedness. You become entangled in the
struggle between Good and Evil; extraordinary help is found only in unusual
places. Others seek to possess a magic stone of dreams known as Wishbringer; but
only you can find it and use its powers to make your town safe again. And you
only have a few hours!

If you're experienced with Infocom's interactive fiction, you may not feel like
reading this entire manual. However, you should at least read about wishing for
magic (on page 5). Also look at the appendix of recognized verbs (on page 8);
some of them can be used in all Infocom stories, but others are special for
Wishbringer. If you study the postal map (included in your package), you will
know where you are and where you can go. That will make it easier to decide what
to do next.



Table of Contents

An Overview -- Page 2
* What is interactive fiction?
* Moving around
* Turns and scoring

Tips for Novices -- 3
Nine useful pointers about interactive fiction

Communicating with Wishbringer -- 4
* Basic sentences
* Complex sentences
* Why doesn't it know that word?

Wishing for Magic -- 5

Starting and Stopping -- 6
* Starting Wishbringer ("Booting Up")
* Saving and restoring
* Quitting and restarting

Appendix A: Important Commands -- 7

Appendix B: Some Recognized Verbs -- 8

Appendix C: Wishbringer Complaints -- 9

Appendix D: Sample Transcript and Map -- 10

Appendix E: We're Never Satisfied -- 11

Appendix F: If You Have Technical Problems -- 11

Appendix G: About the Author -- 12

Appendix H: Quick Reference Guide -- 12
This briefly describes the most important things to know about interactive
fiction. It is vital that you know all these things before you begin your
adventure.

Appendix I: Copyright and Warranty Information -- 13


--------

Page 2


An Overview

Interactive fiction is a story in which you are the main character. Your own
thinking and imagination guide the actions of that character and guide the story
from start to finish.

Each of Infocom's interactive fiction, such as Wishbringer, tells you about a
series of places, items, characters and events. You can interact with these in a
variety of ways.

To move from place to place, type the direction you want to go. When you go into
a new place, read about it carefully. There may be something interesting or
useful (or dangerous) there! You will find it helpful to draw a map of the
geography as you move around.

An important part of interactive fiction is solving puzzles. If you find a
locked door or a ferocious beast in the story, don't think of it as an obstacle;
it's just a puzzle to be tackled. Sometimes the best way to solve a puzzle is to
find something in the story, then take it with you and use it in the right way.

When you play Wishbringer, the story goes on only from the time you press the
RETURN (or ENTER) key until you see the prompt (>). You could imagine a clock
that ticks once for each sentence you type, and the story continues only at each
tick. Nothing happens until you type a sentence and press the RETURN (or ENTER)
key, so you can think and plan your turns as slowly and carefully as you want.

Wishbringer keeps track of your score and gives you points when it thinks you
have done something "right." You may get points for solving puzzles, doing
certain things, or visiting certain places. You can try to get a perfect score
if you want, but you can also try to guide the story to an ending that you like
and have fun along the way.



--------

Page 3


Tips for Novices

1. Draw a map. It should include each location, the directions connecting it to
other locations and any interesting objects there. (See the small sample map
that goes along with the sample transcript on page 10.) Note that there are 6
possible directions (NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST, UP and DOWN) plus IN and OUT.

2. Many things that you'll discover in Wishbringer are important because they
give you clues about the puzzles you want to solve. So examine anything and
everything that you come across. Most of the objects that you can pick up in the
story are useful for solving one or more of the puzzles.

3. Save your place often. That way, if you mess up or get "killed," you won't
have to start over from the beginning. See page 6 for instructions.

4. Read the story carefully. Often there are clues in the descriptions of
locations and objects, as well as in signs, messages, and so on. You should
examine or read anything that might be important. Even a silly or dangerous
action may give you a clue, and it might even be fun! You can always save your
place first if you want. Here's a silly example:

> GIVE THE ROLLER SKATES TO THE VULTURE
The vulture attempts to eat the roller skates, but eventually gives up. It
continues to peck you on the head.

Here you have learned that this vulture doesn't like to eat roller skates, and
you have a clue that maybe giving something else to the vulture (some raw meat?)
would be better.

5. Unlike other "adventure games" that you may have played, there are many ways
to get to the end of Wishbringer. Some puzzles that you find along the way may
have more than one solution; and you may not need to solve others at all.
Sometimes solving a puzzle one way will make it harder to solve another, and
sometimes it will make it easier.

6. You'll like playing Wishbringer with a friend, because different people may
find different puzzles easy or hard. So two more players can often have more
fun, and do better, than one player alone..

7. If you really have trouble, you can order a hint booklet from Infocom by
filling out and mailing the order form in your package. You don't need this 
booklet to enjoy the story, but it will make solving the puzzles easier.

8. Read the sample transcript on page 10 to get a feeling for how Infocom's
interactive fiction works.

9. You can word a command in many different ways. For example, if you wanted to
pick up a shiny hammer that was sitting on a table, you could type any of the
following:

> TAKE HAMMER
> TAKE THE HAMMER FROM THE TABLE
> PICK UP THE SHINY HAMMER
> GET THE HAMMER

In fact, if the hammer is the only object there that you can take, just typing
TAKE would be enough. But more about that in the next section...



--------

Page 4


Communicating with Wishbringer

In Wishbringer, you type your sentence in plain English each time you see the
prompt (>). Wishbringer usually acts as if your sentence begins "I want to...,"
although you shouldn't actually type those words. You can use words like THE if
you want, and you can use capital letters if you want; Wishbringer doesn't care
either way.

When you have finished typing a sentence, press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.
Wishbringer will respond, telling you whether your request is possible at this
point in the story and what happened as a result.

Wishbringer looks only at the first six letters of your words, and it ignores
any letters after the sixth. So, LIBRARy, LIBRARies, and LIBRARian would look
like the same word to Wishbringer.

To move around, just type the compass direction in which you want to go. You can
use four compass directions: NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, and WEST. Or you can use these
abbreviations: N, E, S, and W. You can also use UP (or U), DOWN (or D), IN and
OUT. You don't need to walk around or turn around in a place; anything that you
can see there is within your reach.

Wishbringer understands many different kinds of sentences. Here are several
examples. You may not actually use these commands in Wishbringer, but you'll
certainly use commands like them in the story.

> WALK NORTH
> DOWN
> GO UP
> TAKE THE FOUR-LEAF CLOVER
> PICK ON THE HAT
> WISH FOR RAIN
> LOOK UNDER THE GLASS CASE
> DROP THE ENVELOPE ONTO THE COUNTER
> EXAMINE THE PELICAN
> PUSH THE RED BUTTON
> LOOK AT THE TREE
> WALK INTO THE POLICE STATION
> GO IN THE POST OFFICE
> GIVE THE BOOK TO THE LIBRARIAN

If you want to TAKE or DROP more than one object, you can do it in one command
by separating the objects with a comma or the word AND. Here are some examples:.

> TAKE THE BLACK UMBRELLA, THE HAT, AND THE COIN
> DROP THE LETTER AND THE ENVELOPE

You can type several sentences on one line if you separate them by the word THEN
or by a period. (Each sentence will still count as a turn.) You don't need a
period at the end of the line. If Wishbringer doesn't understand one of the
sentences, or if something unusual happens, it will ignore the rest of your
input line (see "Wishbringer Complaints" on page 9.) For example, you could type
all of these sentences at once, before pressing the RETURN (or ENTER) key:

> OPEN THE MAILBOX THEN PUT THE LETTER IN IT. CLOSE THE MAILBOX THEN GO SOUTH
THEN TAKE THE GLASS OF WATER THEN GO NORTH. DRINK THE WATER

The words IT, HIM, and HER can be very useful. For example:

> TAKE THE BOX. OPEN IT. PUT IT ON THE TABLE

> CLOSE THE HEAVY METAL DOOR. LOCK IT

> KNOCK ON THE LIBRARY DOOR THEN OPEN IT

> GIVE THE LETTER TO THE WOMAN THEN ASK HER FOR A BOOK

You'll meet many people and creatures in Wishbringer. You can ask them questions
or talk to them like this:

> ASK MISS VOSS ABOUT THE VOILET NOTE

> ASK SERGEANT MACGUFFIN FOR THE CHOCOLATE

> QUESTION THE OLD WOMAN

> BETTY, TELL ME ABOUT STEVE

> GRAVEDIGGER, UNLOCK THE GATE

> ALICE, SIT DOWN

But remember: Most people in the story don't have time for idle chatter. Your
deeds will speak louder than your words.

Wishbringer tries to guess what you really mean if you don't give enough
information. For example, if you type that you want to do something, but not
what you want to do it to or with, Wishbringer may decide that there is only one
possible object that you could mean. When it does this, it will tell you. For
example:

> GIVE TROMBONE
(to the musician)
The musician accepts your kind gift and starts playing "Dixie".

If your sentence is not clear enough, Wishbringer will ask what you really mean.
You can answer by typing just the missing information, not the whole sentence
again. You can do this only at the very next prompt. For example:

> OPEN THE DOOR
(Which door do you mean, the sliding door or the storage room door?)

> SLIDING
The sliding door is now open.

Wishbringer uses many words in its descriptions that it will not recognize in
your sentences. For example, you might read, "Sunlight shimmers across the dusty
cobwebs." However, if Wishbringer doesn't recognize the words SUNLIGHT or
COBWEBS when you type them, then you know that you don't need them to finish the
story; they just give you a more vivid description of where you are or what is
going on. Wishbringer recognizes over 1000 words, nearly all that you are likely
to use in your sentences. If Wishbringer doesn't know a word you used, or any
word that means the same, you are almost certainly trying something that you
don't need to do.


--------

Page 5


Wishing for Magic

Wishbringer is a powerful and magical stone. If you're holding Wishbringer, you
can make seven special wishes come true. You can wish for ADVICE, DARKNESS,
FLIGHT, FORESIGHT, FREEDOM, LUCK, or RAIN. You wish for these simply by typing
WISH FOR ADVICE, WISH FOR DARKNESS, etc.

However, you need more than the stone to make the wishes come true. According to
The Legend of Wishbringer, you also need a different object for each wish. These
are described below.

To WISH FOR ADVICE, you need both Wishbringer and a sea shell. As long as you're
holding both, you'll continue to receive ADVICE periodically.

To WISH FOR DARKNESS, you need to drink grue's milk and hold the stone. You must
WISH FOR DARKNESS soon after drinking the milk; otherwise the wish won't come
true.

To WISH FOR FLIGHT, you need to sit on a broomstick while holding the stone. In
the story, flying on the broomstick will always take you to the Magick Shoppe.

To WISH FOR FORESIGHT, you must be holding the stone while wearing a pair of
glasses. Your wish won't come true if you're simply holding the glasses; you
must be wearing them.

To WISH FOR FREEDOM, you must hold the stone and eat candy. Like DARKNESS, you
have to WISH FOR FREEDOM soon after eating the candy; otherwise your wish won't
come true.

To WISH FOR LUCK, you must be holding both the stone and a horseshoe. Your luck
will be broken whenever you drop either the horseshoe or the
stone, but will come back whenever you pick them up again.

To WISH FOR RAIN, you need to be holding an open umbrella and the stone. This
wish won't work indoors.

Remember that most wishes can only be used once. If you get trapped and use your
WISH FOR FREEDOM successfully, you won't be able to use it again later. So use
your wishes carefully; you don't want to waste them.



--------

Page 6


Starting and Stopping

Starting the story:  Now that you know what to expect in Wishbringer, it's time
for you to "boot" your disk. To load Wishbringer, follow the instructions on the
Reference Card in your package.

First the program will display the title of the story, followed by the first bit
of action and a description of the place where the story begins. (Your Reference
Card tells what to do when a full screen of lines rolls by and the program waits
until you're ready to go on.) Then the prompt (>) will appear. The prompt (>)
means that Wishbringer is ready for your command.

Each time you finish typing a command, press the RETURN (or ENTER) key. The
program will carry out your command(s), and another prompt will appear.

Here is a quick exercise to help you get used to Wishbringer. For your first
command after the story begins, type in next to the prompt (>):

GO WEST

Then press the RETURN (or ENTER) key. Wishbringer will respond with:

Outside Cemetery
You're standing next to an open iron gate that leads west into the Festeron
Cemetery. A road runs east to the top of Post Office Hill.
What next?

Maybe you'd like to try climbing the gate, so at the next prompt (>) type:

CLIMB THE GATE

After you press the RETURN (or ENTER) key, Wishbringer will respond:

The iron gate is much too high!

Saving and restoring:  It will probably take you many days to complete
Wishbringer. If you the SAVE command, you can continue at another time without
having to start over from the beginning, just as you can place a bookmark in a
book you are reading. The SAVE command puts a "snapshot" of your place in the
story onto another disk. If you are cautious, you may want to save your place
before (or after) trying something dangerous or tricky. That way, you can go
back to that point later, even if you have gotten lost or "killed" since then.

To save your place in the story, type SAVE at the prompt (>), and then press the
RETURN (or ENTER) key. Then follow the instructions for saving and restoring on
your Reference Card. Most computers need a blank disk, already initialized and
formatted, for snapshots. If you use a disk with data on it (not counting other
Wishbringer snapshots), that data may be destroyed.

You can restore a saved place any time you want. To do so, type RESTORE at the
prompt (>), press the RETURN (or ENTER) key, and then follow the instructions on
your Reference Card. You can then continue the story from the point where you
used the SAVE command. You can type LOOK for a description of where you are.

Quitting and restarting:  If you want to start over from the beginning, type
RESTART and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key. (This is usually faster than
re-booting.) Just to make sure, Wishbringer will ask if you really want to start
over. If you do, type Y or YES, and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.

If you want to stop entirely, type QUIT and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.
Once again, Wishbringer will ask if this is really what you want to do.

Remember when you RESTART or QUIT: if you want to be able to return to this
point later, you must first use the SAVE command.



--------

Page 7


Appendix A: Important Commands

There are a number of one-word commands which you can type instead of a
sentence. You can use them over and over whenever you want. Some count as a
turn, others do not. Type the command after the prompt (>) and hit the RETURN
(or ENTER) key.

AGAIN--Wishbringer will usually respond as if you had repeated your previous
sentence. (You can use the abbreviation G instead.)

BRIEF--This tells Wishbringer to tell all about a place or thing only the first
time you see it. If you see it again later, Wishbringer will tell you only its
name. This is the normal way that Wishbringer will act, unless you use the
VERBOSE or SUPERBRIEF commands.

INVENTORY--Wishbringer will list what you are carrying. (You can use the
abbreviation I instead.)

LOOK--This tells Wishbringer to describe the place you are in. (You can use the
abbreviation L instead.)

QUIT--This lets you stop. If you want to save your place before quitting, follow
the instructions in "Starting and Stopping" on page 6. (You can use the
abbreviation Q instead of QUIT.)

RESTART--This stops the story and starts over from the beginning.

RESTORE--This lets you continue from any point where you used the SAVE command.
See "Starting and Stopping" on page 6 for details.

SAVE--This puts a "snapshot" of your place onto your storage disk. You can
continue from the same place in the future by using the RESTORE command. See
"Starting and Stopping" on page 6 for details.

SCORE--Wishbringer will show your score and the number of turns you have taken.

SCRIPT--This command tells your printer to begin making a transcript of the
story as you play. A transcript may help you remember, but you don't need it to
play. It will work only on certain computers; read your Reference Card for
details.

SUPERBRIEF--This commands Wishbringer to tell you only the name of a place you
have entered, even the first time you see it. Also, Wishbringer will not tell
you what things are there. Of course, you can always get a description of a
place, and the items there, by typing LOOK. In SUPERBRIEF mode, there is no
blank line between turns. This mode is meant for players who are already very
familiar with the geography. Also see VERBOSE and BRIEF.

TIME--This tells you the current time of day in the story. (You can use the
abbreviation T instead.)

UNSCRIPT--This tells your printer to stop making a transcript. Also see SCRIPT.

VERBOSE--This tells Wishbringer to tell you all about a place or thing every
time you see it. Also see BRIEF and SUPERBRIEF.

VERSION--This will show you the release number and the serial number of your
copy of the story. Please send us this information if you ever report a "bug" in
Wishbringer.

WAIT--This will cause time to pass in the story. Normally, between turns,
nothing happens in the story. You could leave your computer, take a nap and
return to the story to find that nothing has changed. You can type WAIT to make
time pass in the story without doing anything. (You can use the abbreviation Z
instead of WAIT.)



--------

Page 8


Appendix B: Some Recognized Verbs

This is only a partial list of the verbs that Wishbringer recognizes. There are
many more. Remember that you can use prepositions with them. For example, LOOK
can become LOOK INSIDE, LOOK BEHIND, LOOK UNDER, LOOK THROUGH, LOOK AT and so
on.

ATTACK   ENTER    LISTEN  SHOW
BLOW     EXAMINE  LOOK    SIT
BREAK    EXIT     MOVE    TAKE
CLIMB    FIND     OPEN    TELL
CLOSE    FOLLOW   PULL    THROW
DESTROY  GIVE     PUSH    UNLOCK
DIVE     KICK     PUT     WAIT
DRINK    KILL     RAISE   WALK
DROP     KISS     READ    YELL
EAT      KNOCK    SEARCH



--------

Page 9


Appendix C: Wishbringer Complaints

Wishbringer will complain if you type a sentence that confuses it completely.
Wishbringer will then ignore the rest of the input line. (Unusual events, such
as being attacked, may also cause Wishbringer to ignore the rest of the
sentences you typed, since the event may have changed your situation
drastically.) Some of Wishbringer's complaints:

SORRY, BUT THIS STORY DOESN'T RECOGNIZE THE WORD "[your word]."
The word you typed is not in the program's list of words. Sometimes you can use
another word that means the same thing. If not, Wishbringer probably can't
understand what you were trying to do.

SORRY, BUT THIS STORY CAN'T UNDERSTAND THE WORD "[your word]" WHEN YOU USE IT
THAT WAY.
Wishbringer knows the word you typed, but it couldn't understand it in that
sense. Usually this is because Wishbringer knows the word as a different part of
speech. For example, if you typed PRESS THE LOWER BUTTON, you are using LOWER as
an adjective, but Wishbringer might know LOWER only as a verb, as in LOWER THE
ROPE.

THERE DOESN'T SEEM TO BE A VERB IN THAT SENTENCE!
Unless you are answering a question, each sentence must have a verb (or a
command) in it somewhere.

THERE AREN'T ENOUGH NOUNS IN THAT SENTENCE!
This usually means that your sentence was incomplete, such as PUT THE BOOK IN
THE.

THERE ARE TOO MANY NOUNS IN THAT SENTENCE.
An example is PUT THE SOUP IN THE BOWL WITH THE LADLE, which has three noun
"phrases," one more than Wishbringer can digest in a single action.

BEG PARDON?
You hit the RETURN (or ENTER) key without typing anything.

YOU CAN'T SEE ANY [thing] HERE!
The thing in your sentence was not visible. It may be somewhere else, inside a
closed container, and so on.

THE OTHER OBJECT [or OBJECTS] THAT YOU MENTIONED ISN'T [or AREN'T] HERE.
You used two or more nouns in the same sentence, and at least one of them wasn't
visible.

YOU CAN'T USE MORE THAN ONE DIRECT [or INDIRECT] OBJECT WITH "[your verb]."
You can use multiple objects (that is, nouns or noun phrases separated by AND or
a comma) only with certain verbs like TAKE and DROP. You can't use more than one
object with most verbs, like READ; so you can't READ THE ENVELOPE AND THE BOOK.

SORRY, BUT THAT SENTENCE DIDN'T MAKE SENSE. PLEASE REWORD IT OR TRY SOMETHING
ELSE.
Wishbringer thought the sentence you typed was nonsense, such as GIVE HIM WITH
TOOL. Or, you may have typed a reasonable sentence but used a syntax that
Wishbringer does not recognize, such as SMELL UNDER THE ROCK. Try typing what
you want to do in a different way.



--------

Page 10


Appendix D: Sample Transcript and Map

This transcript is not from Wishbringer, but it does show most of the usual
things you can do in the story. It shows several simple puzzles and their
solutions, and it should give you a good idea of how Infocom's interactive
fiction works. The player's sentences appear in capital letters after each
prompt (>). The map represents the terrain in the sample transcript as you might
have drawn it.

You awake suddenly from a deep sleep. You are about to roll over and doze off
again when you hear your unicorn, Harry, neighing outside. You get out of bed,
turn on the light, and look under the pillow. Whew! There's Wishbringer, where
you left it. But your wallet, which had been on the bedside table, is missing!

[Sample map not included.]

Bedroom
You're standing in your bedroom, which is small but comfortable. A closed door
leads south into the living room. In a corner of the room sits a bedside table.
Under the pillow on your bed is the magical Stone, Wishbringer.

> TAKE WISHBRINGER
Taken

> GO SOUTH
The bedroom door is closed.

> OPEN THE BEDROOM DOOR
Okay, the bedroom door is now open.

> GO SOUTH
Living Room.

This is your Cozy Living Room, one of the latest models from the Frobozz Magic
Cozy Living Room Company. Two rocking chairs sit in front of a fireplace at one
end of the room; a telephone rests on an oak desk at the other end. A small
picture hangs above the fireplace. The closet door on the west wall is closed.

A cool breeze blows through the open front door, which leads east onto your
porch.

> LOOK AT THE PICTURE
The picture above the fireplace shows a small white farmhouse, not unlike your
own. In red letters above the house are the words "Home Sweet Home."

The cool breeze continues to blow through the open front door, making you
shiver.

> CLOSE THE FRONT DOOR
You push the door against the wind and close it. Ah, that's better!

> FIND THE WALLET
You can't see any wallet here. Again, you hear your unicorn Harry neighing.

> GO OUTSIDE
The front door is closed.

> OPEN THE DOOR
(Which door do you mean, the closet door or the front door?)

> FRONT
Okay, the front door is now open. A cool breeze blows into the room.

> GO OUTSIDE
Porch

You're standing on the front porch of your home. The white paint is chipped, and
the floorboards creak. To the south is the barn. It's chilly out here. You
better not go anywhere without your coat.

> GO INSIDE
Living Room

> OPEN THE CLOSET DOOR
Okay, the closet door is now open.

> GO INTO THE CLOSET
Closet

This is your cedar-lined closet. The aromas make you light-headed. Your coat and
an umbrella are here.

> TAKE THE COAT. PUT IT ON
Taken.
Again, you hear your unicorn Harry neighing.

Okay, you're now wearing the coat.

> GO OUT THEN WALK EAST THEN SOUTH
Living Room

Porch

Outside Barn
Your red-and-black barn is here. That's odd; you thought your barn was yellow
and green. You look again. Ah. That explains it--the red is the flames licking
the walls of the silo, and the black is the thick smoke billowing from the door
and windows. A bucket and a pump sit nearby.

> GO INTO THE BARN
The flames are too hot.

> TAKE THE BUCKET. PUMP WATER INTO THE BUCKET THEN POUR THE WATER ON THE BARN
Taken.

You rhythmically pump water into the bucket. There! The bucket is full of water.

You pour the water on the barn and douse a few embers. However, the fire is out
of control, and the blazing barn continues to burn.

> LOOK FOR HARRY
You can't see Harry here.

> NORTH. WEST. GO IN THE CLOSET THEN TAKE THE UMBRELLA
Porch

Living Room

Closet

Okay, you're now holding the umbrella.

> GO INTO THE LIVING ROOM THEN GO OUT. SOUTH. OPEN THE UMBRELLA
Living Room

Porch

Outside Barn

The umbrella is now open.

> WISH FOR RAIN
A searing bolt of lightning shatters the sky! It strikes the glowing Stone of
Dreams, and fractures the sky into a billion raindrops.

Everything around you is soaked in a brief but savage downpour.

The raging fire dies down and is extinguished.

> GO INTO THE BARN
Barn
The inside of the barn is scorched and charred. Some smoking embers are
scattered on the floor. A blackened horseshoe lies on the ground.

> TAKE THE HORSESHOE
The horseshoe is still too hot to pick up.

> OUT
Outside Barn

> PUMP WATER INTO THE BUCKET
You rhythmically pump water into the bucket. There! The bucket is full of water.

> GO IN THE BARN. POUR THE WATER ONTO THE HORSESHOE
Barn
A blackened horseshoe lies on the ground.

At first the horseshoe sizzles as you pour the water over it. Then it cools and
just gets wet.

> TAKE THE HORSESHOE
You're carrying too many things already!

> INVENTORY
You're carrying Wishbringer, an umbrella, a coat (being worn) and a bucket.

> DROP THE UMBREKKA
(Sorry, but this story doesn't recognize the word "umbrekka".)

> DROP THE UMBRELLA
Dropped.

> TAKE THE HORSESHOE
Taken.

> WISH FOR LUCK
The Stone of Dreams brightens as you speak the Wish, and the edges of the
blackened horseshoe begin to twinkle with Luck.

You hear the phone ringing inside the house.

> GO NORTH THEN WEST
Porch
You hear the phone ringing inside the house.

Living Room
The phone is ringing.

> ANSWER THE PHONE
You pick up the receiver. It's the police calling! They tell you that they've
just caught a thief, the Mad Arsonist of Festeron, and they found your wallet!
You thank them and hang up the phone. Then you hear someone--or something-- 
outside.

> GO OUTSIDE
Porch
Here's Harry! He's soaking wet, which unicorns hate, but he's obviously happy to
see you.

> PET HARRY
Harry nudges you fondly with his horn and looks at you lovingly with his gentle
brown eyes.



--------

Page 11


Appendix E: We're Never Satisfied

Here at Infocom, we take great pride in the quality of our stories. Even after
they're in your hands, we still want to make them better.

Your input is important. No matter how much testing we do, it seems that some
"bugs" never crawl into view until thousands of you begin doing all those wild
and crazy things to the story. If you find a "bug," or if you think a certain
puzzle was too hard or too easy, or if you have some other suggestion, or if
you'd just like to tell what you thought of the story, write to us! We love an
excuse to stop working, and a letter from you would be just such an excuse!
Write to:

      INFOCOM, INC.
      125 CambridgePark Drive
      Cambridge, MA 02140
      Attn: Mr. Crisp



Appendix F: If You Have Technical Problems

You can call the Infocom Technical Support Team to report "bugs" and technical
problems, but not for hints to solve puzzles, at (617) 576-3190. If your disk
fails within ninety (90) days after purchase, we will replace it at no charge.
Otherwise, we will replace it for a fee of $5 (U.S. currency). If you call to
report a "bug," please provide your release number, which you can find by typing
the command VERSION. Please mail us your registration card if you'd like to be
on our mailing list and receive our newsletter, The New Zork Times.



--------

Page 12


Appendix G: About the Author

"Professor" Brian Moriarty built his first computer in the fifth grade. This
early experience with electronics led him to seek a degree in English Literature
at Southeastern Massachusetts University, where he graduated in 1978. He lives
near the bridge in Historic Concord, does not hate children, and is a member in
good standing of the Nathaniel Hawthorne Society. Wishbringer is his first work
of interactive fiction.



Appendix H: Quick Reference Guide

1. To start the story ("boot up"), see the separate Reference Card in your
Wishbringer package.

2. When you see the prompt (>) on your screen, Wishbringer is waiting for your
command. There are three kinds of commands that Wishbringer understands:

A. Direction commands: To move from place to place, just type the direction you
want to go: N (or NORTH), E, S, W, U (or UP), D, IN, OUT.

B. Actions: Just type whatever you want to do. Some examples: READ THE BOOK or
OPEN THE DOOR or WISH FOR RAIN or LOOK THROUGH THE WINDOW. Once you're familiar
with simple commands, you'll want to use more complex ones; they're described in
"Communicating with Wishbringer" on page 4.

C. Special one-word commands: Some one-word commands, such as INVENTORY or
VERBOSE, give you specific information or affect your output. A list of these
appears in the "Important Commands" appendix on page 7.

3. Important! After typing your sentence or command, you must press the RETURN
(or ENTER) key before Wishbringer will respond.

4. On most computers, your screen will have a special line called the status
line. It tells you the name of the place you're in and the time of day in the
story.

5. You can pick up and carry many of the items you'll find in the story. For
example, if you type TAKE THE ENVELOPE, you will be carrying it. Type INVENTORY
to see a list of everything you are carrying.

6. When you want to stop, save your place for later, or start over, read the
"Starting and Stopping" section on page 6.

7. If you have trouble, look at a specific section of the manual for more
detailed instructions.



--------

Page 13


Appendix I: Copyright and Warranty Information

Limited Warranty

This software product and the attached instructional materials are sold "AS IS,"
without warranty as to their performance. The entire risk as to the quality and
performance of the computer software program is assumed by the user.

However, to the original purchaser of a disk prepared by Infocom and carrying
the Infocom label on the disk jacket, Infocom, Inc. warrants the medium on which
the program is recorded to be free from defects in materials and faulty
workmanship under normal use and service for a period of ninety (90) days from
the date of purchase. If during this period a defect on the medium should occur,
the medium may be returned to Infocom, Inc. or to an authorized Infocom, Inc.
dealer, and Infocom, Inc. will replace the medium without charge to you. Your
sole and exclusive remedy in the event of a defect is expressly limited to
replacement of the medium as provided above. This warranty gives you specific
legal rights and you may also have other rights which vary from state to state.

THE ABOVE WARRANTIES FOR GOODS ARE IN LIEU OF ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED,
OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND OF ANY OTHER WARRANTY
OBLIGATION ON THE PART OF INFOCOM, INC. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON
HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO
YOU. IN NO EVENT SHALL INFOCOM, INC. OR ANYONE ELSE WHO HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN THE
CREATION AND PRODUCTION OF THIS COMPUTER SOFTWARE PROGRAM BE LIABLE FOR
INDIRECT, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SUCH AS, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, LOSS
OF ANTICIPATED PROFITS OR BENEFITS RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS PROGRAM, OR
ARISING OUT OF ANY BREACH OF THIS WARRANTY. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW THE
EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE
LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

N.B. After the warranty period, a defective Infocom disk may be returned to
Infocom, Inc. with a check or money order for $5.00 (U.S. currency) for
replacement.


Copyright

The enclosed software product is copyrighted and all rights are reserved by
Infocom, Inc. It is published exclusively by Infocom, Inc. The distribution and
sale of this product are intended for the use of the original purchaser only and
for use only on the computer system specified. Lawful users of this program are
hereby licensed only to read the program from its medium into memory of a
computer solely for the purpose of executing the program. Copying (except for
one backup copy on those systems which provide for it--see Reference Card),
duplicating, selling, or otherwise distributing this product is a violation of
the law.

This manual and all other documentation contained herein are copyrighted and all
rights are reserved by Infocom, Inc. These documents may not, in whole or in
part, be copied, photocopied, reproduced, translated, or reduced to any
electronic medium or machine-readable form without prior consent, in writing,
from Infocom, Inc.

Willful violations of the Copyright Law of the United States can result in civil
damages of up to $50,000 in addition to actual damages, plus criminal penalties
of up to one year imprisonment and/or $10,000 fine.
Wishbringer is a trademark of Infocom, Inc.
(C) 1985 Infocom, Inc.
Printed in U.S.A.

(C) 2001 Activision, Inc. Reproduced with permission. All right reserved.


