[ENCHANTER: A BRIEF HISTORY OF MAGIC]
[PAGE 1 – FRONT COVER]
[Front cover is printed in rose. In the middle is a big square filled with intricate and eye-pleasing pattern. In
the middle of the big square is a smaller square, printed in blue. In its middle is a giant letter E. Around
this letter are five smaller circles which represent the rotating of a waning moon. Also, in the process of
rotation, the moon is getting shinier and more thicker.]
A Brief History of Magic
By Gustar Woomax
Copied Right in 927 GUE. All rights reserved.
A POPULAR ENCHANTING Book.
[PAGE 2]
[Text on this page is written on a small piece of old paper. The first letter is depicted in a beautiful picture
filled with complex patterns, as is usual for old books.]
The history of magic can be broken down into four distinct periods: the Empirical Age, the Scientific Age,
the Industrial Age, and the Age of Guilds. Each of these will be explored in some depth in order to give the
reader a sense of the course of events which has shaped the use of magic in today's society.
[PAGE 3]
[Text on this page is written over a background picture. The picture is clearly of technical nature. It shows
the drawing of a big planet and its moons that are merely circles drawn with pencil. There are stars all
around. Above the planet is something of artificial construction. It may be some sort of satellite or space
station, although its design is very simple. On this object it is written: »WE ALWAYS KNOW WHERE WE
STAND.« At the bottom of the page is a drawing of a blazing sun and its influence on three planet with
their atmospheres. I think. Because picture may also be showing one planet in three different stages of
circling around the sun. It is hard to tell. It shows how the surface of planet(s) is covered in the light from
the sun or in shadow.]
The Empirical Age
Primitive cultures had naturally assumed that the disorderly nature of our world was due to such
supernatural causes as magic. With the founding of the "natural" sciences, however, nature was
increasingly viewed as being orderly. As the sciences progressed, the knowledge and lore of magic
largely disappeared. As early as 5th century GUE (Great Underground Empire), however, such students
of the mystic arts as Bizboz and Dinbar thoroughly examined ancient writings on the subject. Bizboz
himself wrote what became the seminal work in Thaumaturgy, "On the Presence of Incredibly Weird Stuff
Going On," in 473 GUE, in which he claimed to have discovered "for-the-most-part-Natural Rules" by
which this Weird Stuff is ordered.
This work was ridiculed by the leading scholars of the time, leading to Bizboz's removal from the faculty
at the Galepath University, and, eventually, to his tragic suicide in 475 GUE. His work, however,
encouraged others in the pursuit of magical knowledge, with mixed results. Charlatans, claiming to have
created magical potions and powders, regularly fooled the gullible population into buying potions which
claimed to do such things as "reverse hair loss" and "draw Trebled Fromps in Double Fanucci." Such
appeals to public ignorance led King Duncanthrax in 672 GUE to write the Unnatural Acts, which provided
stiff penalties for those convicted of selling "Unnatural of Supernatural substances."
[PAGE 4]
[This page is nicely decorated with huge letter S in the upper left corner. This letter "S" stands for
Scientific (Age). In the upper right corner is smaller but equally nicely decorated letter A and in bottom left
corner there is letter B and in bottom right corner there is letter C, drawn in the same manner. These
three letters, ABC, are suppose to give the feeling of alphabet, which is the foundation stone to
knowledge, education and science, philosophy, etc.]
The Scientific Age
While the charlatans were at work, serious students took up the cause of magic, attempting to explain the
natural world as by-product of the interrelated workings of the sciences of Physics, Medicine, Chemistry,
Mathematics, and Thaumaturgy. Their success in demonstrating the so-called first principles of
Thaumaturgy, namely Presence, Incantation, and Unusual Effect, led to a loosening of the Unnatural Acts
to allow what became known as Scientific Thaumaturgy. During this period, the first chapter of the Guild
of Enchanters was founded at the tiny hamlet of Accardi-by-the-Sea by the great thaumaturge, Vilboz.
During the reign of Frobwit the Flatter (701 – 727 GUE), the art and science of Thaumaturgy flourished.
The first reliable Incantation Device, known to scholars as the Hyperbolic Incantation Concentrator, was
produced at the Thaumaturgical Institute in 723 GUE. The long, thin, portable device, nicknamed the
"magic wand" by the lay press, became an instant sensation among the populace, and gained a certain
measure of respect for the fledging science.
A major advance in Thaumaturgy occurred when Davmar, working in newly-crowned King Mumberthrax
Flathead's laboratory, discovered a means by which Incantation could be stored on special Presenceimbued
paper. These so-called scrolls were found, however, to be destroyed during the spells'
incantation. Nonetheless, scrolls soon replaced the temperamental and poorly-understood "wand" as the
primary mean of Incantation.
The problem of imbuing Presence became a deterrent to the rapid growth of magical science. The
creation of a single powerful scroll could take literally months for even most creative and productive
thaumaturge. This roadblock prevented the widespread use of magic for generations.
[PAGE 5]
[Text on this page is written on paper that is so old that is a bit ripped here and there around the edges,
which are also starting to turn with age. So the paper is starting to look like scroll.]
The Industrial Age
The industrial Age dawned in 769 GUE with a discovery by a little-known thaumaturge named Berzio.
Berzio, working for years in his own self-made workshop and often going for days without food, drink, or
sleep, created the means by which Presence could be transferred from a scroll to a specially
impregnated paper by use of a simple spell, which he named after his dog, Gnusto. This paper, in turn,
held the Presence even after the Incantation had been finished, solving the major problem in spell
production. The euphoria which greeted this discovery was tempered by the finding that very powerful
spells could not be transferred in this way. Nevertheless, spell "books," which were capable of holding
dozens of spells, were produced in great number, leading to the founding of a new industry.
Another advance in Thaumaturgy occurred with the finding that certain liquids and powders could be
imbued with the magical Presence. Such potions are of great interest, although their limitations have
prevented them from supplanting scrolls as the primary method of Incantation. The first of these potions,
which obviates the need for food and drink, was given the name BERZIO, in honor of the great
thaumaturge.
[PAGE 6]
[On the top of the page are small drawings of a lizard, fly and two plants. On the bottom is a bigger
drawing that is also used a background for the text which is written over it. The drawing is a Zorkian
version of the caduceus symbol that doctors and nurses wear: It shows a standing tree with thin log. The
tree has been cut clean at its first branches, so it is actually just a tall tree stump. Two snakes are
wrapping around each other and around this tree stump, all the way to its top. It seems the snakes are
wooden, that all this is just a wooden statue, but that is hard to tell. The snakes seem to be rattlesnakes.
The tail of one of them is wrapped around a medical mortar and pestle, used for crushing seeds and
mixing medicines. The tail of the other snake is wrapped around some sort of fruit that looks something
like pineapple, except it is comprised of lots of little grapes and few leaves.]
The Age of Guilds
As the use of magic became more prevalent, so did the problems inherent in its use. Since magic had
become available to people in all professions, conflicts arose. One famous issue involved the question
whether the plumber's FIZMO spell ("cause stopped-up pipes to unclog") could be sold as a digestive aid
by physicians. The issue came to a head in the aftermath of the Endless Fire of 773 GUE, so named
because it burned for 4 weeks after destroying the city of Mareilon. It was later found to have been started
by a civil servant who thought he was casting the ZEMDOR spell ("turn original into triplicate") but who,
instead, cast the ZIMBOR spell ("turn one really big city in lots of tiny ashes").
This led Lord Dimwit Flathead (the Excessive) to issue series of 5,521 edicts over the following few
weeks, which had the effect of severely limiting access to magic (and, incidentally, lawyers). Henceforth,
all magic was entrusted to the various Guilds of Enchanters, which by now existed in many small
communities. Each Guild, whose elders comprised the so-called Circle of Enchanters, was empowered
to form schools for the training new Enchanters. This official sanctioning of the Guilds led to the formation
of numerous others chapters with membership in the various Guilds in excess on 2,000 by the year 800
GUE. Despite the fall of the Great Underground Empire in 883 GUE under the feeble-minded reign of
Wurb Flathead, the Guild of Enchanters remains virtually unchanged in character today.
[PAGE 7]
[In the upper left corner is a drawing of a bird. In the lower left corner is a drawing of a sphere and in the
bottom right corner there is a drawing of a pyramid. At the bottom of the page, between the sphere and
pyramid, there is a drawing of a mortar and pestle, both used for crushing seeds. The mortar has a
waning moon drawn on it, along with a star. Some really old bird is sitting on the cup. It looks like some
sort of vulture. On the left and right edges of this page are drawings of the stars.]
Today's Enchanter
Since the fall of the Empire, magic has again become a mysterious art, practiced primarily by trained
Sorcerers, although a few spells, such as UMBOZ ("obviate need for dusting") and NERZO ("balance
checkbook"), have been approved for over-the-counter sale. Upon graduation from an accredited
Thaumaturgical College, an Enchanter is given a spell book with a few spells, none of which has great
power. As an Enchanter continues his or her studies, new spells may be obtained; these may be copied
into a spell book for use whenever the occasion warrants.
The Enchanter's job is not as easy as is commonly thought. An Enchanter must memorize a spell written
in a spell book before casting it. (Spells on scrolls and those which have been permanently etched in the
memory by training needn't be memorized.) Moreover, if an Enchanter needs to use a particular spell
twice, it must be memorized twice, since the effort of casting it makes it a jumble in one's memory. In
fact, even a night's sleep will make an Enchanter forget any memorized spells. But, in spite of the rigors
of spell casting, the personal rewards are great, and the job of Enchanter remains a popular and wellrespected
vocation.
[PAGE 8]
[On the upper third of the page is a drawing of an archer stretching its bow just seconds before releasing
the arrow. Actually, it is not a drawing, but merely outline of a drawing. The archer is wearing a Robin
Hood kind of a hat. This outline is of technical nature, because there are lines and circles depicting
various sizes, heights, lengths, diameters, etc. All there are marked by small letters a,b,c, etc. Eventually
these lines end at the bottom left corner of the page and are pointing to a drawing of an apple.]
An Afterthought
The most fitting words regarding the history of magic were written over a century ago by the renowned
historian Ozmar in 821 GUE. He wrote: "The greatest irony is this: that the ancients of our kind were
nearer to knowing the truth about Science than those who called themselves Scientists. Science has
taught us much and given us new words for old mysteries. But beneath these words are mysteries and
beneath them more mysteries. The pursuit of Magic has given these mysteries meaning and provided for
our people great benefits unrealized as yet by Science. One day, perhaps, a great union will be formed
between Magic and Science, and the final mysteries will be solved."
[PAGE 9 – BACK COVER]
[This page is made in same manner as front cover: printed in rose with a big square in the middle, which
is filled with intricate pattern. In the middle of this square is a smaller grey square, which contains the text.
First letter of this text (letter "O") is actually small, but richly decorated picture.]
Our once peaceful land is being held in thrall by a warlock so powerful, he detects and destroys even the
strongest opponents who enter his domain. But all is not yet lost, for an ancient prophecy speaks of a
brave and cunning novice enchanter, someone insignificant enough to slip past the watchful warlock and
conquer him by means of rudimentary magic and spells discovered during the quest.
Our only hope for the future is you. Should you succeed, a seat in the illustrious Circle of Enchanters shall
be yours. But if you fail, our land will be subjugated to unimaginable doom forever. Farewell, brave
enchanter; may your necromancy save the land and the prophecy prove true.
The Table of Contents for the instruction manual is on page 11. Take a look at it to find out what you need
to know before you start the story.

--

Our once peaceful land is being held in thrall by a warlock so powerful,
he detects and destroys even the strongest opponenets who enter his domain.
But all is not yet lost, for an ancient prophecy speaks of a brave and cunning novice enchanter,
someone insignificant enough to slip past the watchful warlock and conquer him by means of 
rudimentary magic and spells discovered during the quest.

Our only hope for the future is you.
Should you succeed, a seat in the illustrious Circle of Enchanters shall be yours.
But if you fail, our land will be subjugated to unimaginable doom forever.
Farewell, brave enchanger; may your necromancy save the land and the prophecy prove true.

--

If you truly are the one
brave enough to face
unspeakable peril'
let your wizardly
powers reveal
our words'
Hear us…
We, the Circle of Enchanters, have foreseen that a ruthless and powerful Evil may one day
seize this land.
Should that time arrive, we also foresee the coming of age of a young Enchanter, one
whose heart and wits may triumph over the Warlock's dark necromancy. It is our hope
that this Enchanter hears our words.
We cannot see your face through the mists of time, but this we know in truth… You are
promising in magic but have not gained your full skills. That is as it must be, for the
Warlock would recognize one of the Council of Elders and would sense the presence of a
more powerful Enchanter. Thus, in your obscurity you may find your way to his lair before
he know the mortal danger you pose.
Four spells will arm you as you begin your quest. FROTZ shall turn darkness to light.
NITFOL shall build a bridge of language to all the animals of the land. GNUSTO writes
magic; by it you shall commit spells to your treasured spell book. BLORB is a spell of
protection; with it you may guard your most precious possession.
Never forget, young Enchanter, that magic is your only weapon. By your vows to the
Council of Elders you have cast aside the common protections of sword and armor.
Therefore you will need many more spells to accomplish your quest. These will be
revealed to you. Always be alert.
Though your way will be harsh and your steps fraught with danger, remember throughout
your quest that you are the only hope of this land. We pray that our successors will
choose wisely and that you will prove yourself worthy of the title Enchanter.
Signed with our mark and cast into the ages….
The Circle of Enchanters
