CLSF 38-25916-6725
CLASSIFIED
This briefing has been updated and revised many times to ensure accuracy and
completeness. In a crisis, our planet's survival depends on you. We cannot overstate the
importance of the information contained herein.
Since Contra was terraformed and settled by emigres from Earth, we have had the
benefit of living within a controlled environment. As you well know, our weather is always
perfect and there is food for everyone--wholesome, delicious food. Anyone wishing to travel
the surface of our planet simply takes a glide ramp, a robot-taxi, or a floater.
This controlled and balanced environment is maintained by three massive and powerful
computers buried deep beneath Contra's surface. Without these computers, we would be
forced to brave the elemental fury of Contra and provide for ourselves using primitive
methods and skills.
Contra's three Filtering Computers maintain and monitor all surface-side systems.

RESP 21-86459-9723
YOUR RESPONSIBILITIES TO CONTRA
Since these three Filtering Computers are biomechanical in construction, they must be
monitored. It is the duty of the Central Mentality to monitor these Filtering Computers to
ensure they function properly.
The Filtering Computers are located in an extremely high-security
area called the Underground Complex. With one exception, monitoring of the Filtering
Computers has always proceeded without trouble. Since training and costs prohibit
frequent changing of the Central Mentality, you will be in the Complex for 500 years.
Your time in the Complex will be spent in a state of limited cryogenic suspension.
You will be frozen to nearly absolute zero and then stored in a cryogenic capsule within
the Complex. Your brain will remain in an Alpha state, receptive but quiet, requiring only
minimal biological functions. You will be able to survive in this state for your tour of duty:
500 years.

WRNG 27-30651-1804
IF SOMETHING GOES WRONG
It won't. But if it does, the computers responsible for all of our surface-side systems
will awaken you and inform you of the problem. We are confident you will be capable of
solving any situations which may arise. The fate of the entire population of Contra will
rest in your abilities to make logical decisions and choices.
Your body will be warmed to the point where marginal biological activity is resumed,
supplying your mind with the necessary nutrients and oxygen to function at peak capacity.
Unfortunately, we cannot revive you completely until the end of your tour of duty.
Due to the Gregory Franklin incident (refer to the letter from the Lottery Commission),
we are forced to make clones of you. When you complete this briefing, the cloning
procedure will begin. These clones will be installed in the Complex as a backup system,
should anything go wrong with you.

UNCX 56-05319-9278
THE UNDERGROUND COMPLEX
The Underground Complex you will occupy is fully automated and maintained by six robots. In
the unlikely event that the Filtering Computers malfunction, there are override controls for the
weather systems, the transit systems and the hydroponics food resource center. There are also
planet-side monitors for examining the current state of these systems.
The robots which maintain the Complex are under the control of the Filtering Computers.
Malfunctioning equipment is quickly and easily detected by the computers themselves, and the
necessary robots are dispatched to effect the replacements. If you are ever awakened (an extremely
unlikely event), robots will provide your link to the outside world.

--

SRBT 63-34582-2351 THE SIX ROBOTS
The most recent facilities check indicates that your robotic crew is fully operational (with the
exception noted below). The following profiles have been provided to inform you of special
capabilities of individual robots, so that you can make the best use of each member of your crew,
should corrective maneuvers become necessary.
Iris is a visual robot whose mobility is limited. Her ability to describe things
approaches what a human being might see in most circumstances. Since the Frobozz
Engineering Company was responsible for her design and construction, she has limited
abilities for grasping,carrying, etc., and has only two grasping extensions. An historical note:
she proved to be the butt of many design and implementation jokes on Contra's surface, one
of which was "The eyes have it." Humor of this sort has, of course, since been outlawed on
Contra.
Iris's limited mobility results from her complex optical capabilities. Due to these abilities,
only a limited mapping of the Complex was included in her logic circuits. This design
restriction allows Iris to wander about the areas only in which she serves a useful purpose.
Waldo is an industrious robot. Since his primary purpose is to manipulate objects, he
has been provided with six grasping extensions. He travels by using a sonar-feedback
mechanism and, when close to or touching an object, can detect quite a bit about its
inherent characteristics based on this sonar. In addition, he has a highly developed sense of
touch and can prove to be a delicate workman.
Sensa is a peculiar mixture of sensory apparatuses. She can detect vibrational
activity, photon emission sources and ionic discharges. She is also
rigged to automatically perform such sensory tasks as the analysis of diffraction indexes.
Sensa has five extensions, two of which are used exclusively for sensory input. The other
three extensions are grasping extensions.
Auda is all ears, capable of processing and interpreting auditory signals within the
Complex. Her presence is required by the CLU (Consolidated Listeners Union), and
though Auda may not be very helpful in the high-tech sense, in case of human
intervention she is absolutely essential. Auda has but one grasping extension.
Poet is a peculiar robot whose function was somehow altered over time by the
Filtering Computers. Poet was originally intended as a diagnostic robot. He has been
equipped with a diagnostic sensor which is activated when he has been directed to
TOUCH something. Unless Poet is actually doing his thing, he makes the best of what he
perceives, translating his input into occasionally bewildering output. Despite the sometimes
seeming lack of sense to his statements, they provide an accurate representation of reality.
In addition to his "touching" extension, Poet has been provided with three grasping
extensions.
Whiz is an interfacing device between you and the Central Library Core, a huge data
bank available to your queries. Whiz can PLUG IN to any of the four CLC peripherals
and find information for you. This information pertains to objects and the Complex in
general. The CLC contains no information about any of the rooms your robots can visit.
Although Whiz is extremely helpful, he does have his limitations. There was once a robotjoke
about Whiz being a real airhead; if he could have understood it, he would have taken
offense. Whiz has two grasping extensions.

Note: There is a seventh robot. Standing almost two meters tall and featuring 16 grasping
extensions, verbal circuits and heavy-duty shielding against acid damage, this model is
optimized for a multitude of applications. It should be mentioned that this robot was misused
by Gregory Franklin, who abandoned it within the Complex after brutally mangling it beyond
recognition or hope of repair.

--

TCLC 41-54963-3920
THE CENTRAL LIBRARY CORE (CLC)
The Central Library Core (CLC) is composed of several distinct parts: Whiz, the
Peripherals and the Library Core.
Whiz. Whiz's function with the CLC is to act as your querying device. By plugging him in,
you can ask questions about objects and get advice on situations.
The Peripherals. There are four peripherals accessible to Whiz:
The Index Peripheral--Querying this peripheral
performs the following operations: The object is passed along to the Central Language Core,
at which point its name is matched against an index. If the name is not found, you will be
informed that the object is not on file and no peripheral will contain any reference to it. If the
object is found within the Language Core, it is passed to the Index Core. The Index Core
then scans through the tagging device for references. If no references are found, you will be
told that no data is available at any peripheral. If references are found, you will be told at
which peripherals information can be retrieved.

The Technical Peripheral - This peripheral can provide technical data on some objects. If
you absolutely need to know how something works, querying this peripheral can sometimes
prove helpful. Technical information is not available on all objects.
The Advisory Peripheral - When you need advice and just can't understand what's going
on with something, ask this peripheral. It is attuned to provide Hierarchical Information for
Newly Terraformed Systems (H.I.N.T.S.).
The Historical Peripheral--This peripheral can provide you with historical references for
certain objects found within the Complex, adding a greater understanding of what these
things do and how they interact.
The Library Core. The CLC itself is also accessible from the Lower Access area, but all
interactions and queries here are designed solely for human interaction. Whiz cannot
perform queries from this area since there isn't a suitable peripheral for him.

SRSY 92-63427-7941 THE SURFACE SYSTEMS
The surface of Contra is controlled by the three Filtering Computers. These systems, when in
proper balance, maintain the weather, the transportation systems and the food production
automatically. By polling surface-side peripherals, the Filtering Computers can make
decisions on what adjustments are necessary for a balanced environment. If the Filtering
Computers cannot mutually agree on a course of action, you will be awakened to make the
necessary decisions.
The Weather System. Weather on the surface of Contra is controlled by
Weather Towers. Each city has three towers which control atmospheric
pressure within the surrounding area. By testing temperature, velocity and
relative humidity, the three Filtering Computers can adjustments in the
Weather Towers to maintain a balanced, comfortable state. Since the weather on the surface
is controlled, housing and clothing
are more decorative than protective, and maintaining a balanced weather condition becomes
a primary concern.
Since the planetary engineers were aware of this; they built the Weather Monitors and
the Weather Controls into the Complex. You have been provided with manual override
controls in case the Filtering Computers fall out of synchronization and cannot agree on a
course of action. These controls are found in the Weather Control Area and consist of three
dials, each of which controls a set of towers in all the cities of Contra. The first dial, for
example, controls the pressure in all of the first towers in all of the cities.
The Weather Monitors provide you with the necessary feedback on the planet's surface
so that you can make necessary adjustments.
Food Production. Food is produced hydroponically deep underground,
separated from the Underground Complex by nearly half a planet. The Filtering
Computers prepare and balance the amount of minerals and light for the
Hydroponic Growing Area. This area is not accessible to you or the robots
because of its distant location, but you do have manual control over it, should the
need ever arise.
The Hydroponic Monitors provide you with a continual analysis of the Growing Area,
while three levers in the Hydroponic Control Area allow you to override the three Filtering
Computers' settings.
The Transportation System. Transportation on Contra's surface is totally
automated and controlled by the Filtering Computers. There are three basic
forms of transportation: floaters, taxis and glide ramps. Floaters are small singleor
double-occupant bubbles which travel through the air. They travel on lines of
force, generated from the ground, maintained and controlled by the Filtering Computers.
Collisions are normally unheard of, and not a single casualty has ever occurred due to traffic
problems. The Transit Monitors tell you how many floaters are currently in use, while a manual
override switch is located in the Transit Control Area. By turning off the switch, you can turn
off the lines of force to the floaters.
The taxis are actually robots, semi-intelligent vehicles which are guided by the Filtering
Computers. They have on-board power, so the manual override system, a switch in the
Transit Control Area, instructs the taxis to stop picking up passengers rather than simply
shutting them off. (When Franklin was in control, he managed to figure out a method of
getting the Filtering Computers out of balance, causing the taxis to seek out pedestrians and
run them down.)
The glide ramps are similar in function to conveyor belts, transporting the bulk of the
population at a leisurely pace. The ramps are speed-controlled by the Filtering Computers
and can be shut off by using the manual override switch located in the Transit Control area.
A Final Note. Your 500-year tour of duty will indubitably fly by trouble-free. Pleasant dreams.

--

A robot who hears but cannot see ...
You are suspended-physically immobilized, frozen but alive-
20 miles beneath the surface of an automated planet. Three computers,
supposedly perfect and fail-safe, control the entire planet's
weather, transportation and food production. You are linked to the
computer system in case of an emergency-in case, for some
unthinkable, unimaginable reason, the computers malfunction.
A robot who sees but cannot wander . ..
Should the impossible happen, should something go wrong, you
must fix the computers as quickly as possible, since people will be
dying-victims of a utopia turned nightmare-until you do.
A robot who feels but cannot hear . ..
You cannot move. You have six robots at your disposal to do your
work for you-highly specialized, preprogrammed robots, all obedient,
all helpful, all individualized. You will have to manipulate them
in and around an Underground Complex where the computers are
controlled. You will address and work them separately and jointly,
and they will report back to you with their progress and perceptions.
Think logically. Act decisively. Your life-and that of the entire
planet-depends on you.
The Table of Contents for the manual is on page 11. Take a look at it
to determine what you should read before you start the story.

--

YOU MUST CARRY THIS CARD AT ALL TIMES. DO
NOT BEND, FOLD, SPINDLE, MUTILATE OR BURN.
Should your number be selected in the semi-millennial
lottery, you are required to surrender this card, along
with yourself, to the Contra Central Authorities.
Failure to comply with any of these laws is a violation
and will result in the immediate sequester of your
home, floater and children. In cases of extended
avoidance and non-compliance, termination may be
considered.
DORNIK ORTNAG Ill
Director of Future Mentalities

--

Contra Central
Lottery Commission Headquarters
Occupant/Subcluster B93000
Sector 12, Contra SW RP35/34412.8
Congratulations. You have been chosen as the winner of the semi-millennial Lottery, and as such will have the honor of
serving as Contra's Central Mentality for the next 500 years.
Naturally, this title brings with it certain responsibilities, not the least of which is ensuring the survival of life on this planet. To
this end, in accordance with Procedural Substatute 2.5X:845A77b, you will be placed in a state of limited cryogenic
suspension. In this sleep-like mode, your mind will monitor the Filtering Computers that maintain the delicate balance of our
surface-side systems. Should an emergency occur which causes a Filtering Computer imbalance, you will be awakened.
It will then be up to you to ascertain the problem and perform such remedial actions as you deem necessary. The penalties for
failure are all too obvious.
A briefing has been prepared to familiarize you with your duties in your new role. It has been revised and amended to enable
you to avoid the tragic errors of your predecessor, the lamentable Gregory Franklin. The briefing supersedes and
countermands all previous briefings issued by the Lottery Commission.
It may be material at this time to review the Franklin Incident. The report of the events appearing in the Contra Citizen of two
months ago, while editorial in nature, sums up the circumstances succinctly:
"...but Franklin was not destined to complete his tour of duty. After 467 years, he awoke by mistake, and, not being
extremely bright to start with, lost what little sense and sanity he had.
He looked around the Underground Complex for an emergency, found none and decided to create one of his own.
"Overriding the three Filtering Computers, he directed the transportation systems to kill whoever happened to be walking
outside or riding on any of the glide ramps. Psychologists believe that he must have possessed a twisted sense of humor--to
have people maimed, run over, chased by robot-taxis provided him with pleasure for the moment. However, he soon tired of
this and decided to eliminate a larger section of the population in a far easier manner.

"Ever since weather had been controlled, dwellings had not been designed to withstand snow and sleet. Franklin altered
the pressure in the Weather Towers near the cities, setting off raging storms and creating freezing temperatures.
Thousands perished from exposure; thousands more became popsicles.
"The surviving authorities decided to send an extermination squad down into the Underground Complex to remove
Franklin from his suspension capsule. They got there Just in time. When they arrived, Franklin had the six maintenance
robots snipping wires and causing havoc with the Filtering Computers and automated systems.
"In the tragedy's aftermath, several known malcontents protested that the system had proven itself infeasible; these
complaints were dealt with summarily by the Authority, which assures all citizens that new improvements in the system
and the method for selecting future central mentalities have eliminated any cause for alarm..."
With this in mind, you can well understand why the Authority insists on a comprehensive briefing before you enter the
Complex. You are therefore requested to read the enclosed briefing with the greatest care before entering the suspended
state.
Ignatz Feroukin
VP/Memos
Addendum: The Office of Cloning and Personnel Development informs us that a number of replicates of you are
currently under production, for use in the event that we find it necessary to remove you. This should in no way be
construed as a reflection on you as a person; despite the fact that your psychological profile revealed a few
characteristics which could be termed "deviant," we have only the highest expectations for you. Needless to say,
however, the Authority desires no repeats of Franklin's performance. Therefore, remember: you can be replaced.
Lottery Commission Headquarters, Bureau of Awards & Prizes, Contra Central, XR27/55693.1

