National Detective Gazette
LAW ENFORCEMENT GETS TOUGH WITH DEVIANTS WHO PLAGUE THE 'PHONE LINES.
"Five a.m., I was lying in my bed trying to decide what to do next," recalls Bob Lundstrom. "My wife kept asking, 'who
was that calling, Bob?' And I kept answering over and over, 'It was nobody we know; a wrong number for someone
named Minkinin.'
"Eunice knew there was something more to it than that. She knew because I couldn't fall back to sleep after the call. I
kept hearing the voice, a southerner's voice, over and over in my head. 'Lundstrom, watch out behind you, don't stay out
after dark and don't let me catch you in St. Croix Bluffs ever again - or you're a dead man!'
"I didn't know what to do. It was five o'clock in the morning, and it didn't seem like it would do much good to call the
sheriff that night. I had no idea where the 'phone call came from or who was behind it.
"All I knew was that I was scared and a bit mad. I haven't felt that powerless since the German bombing raids in the
World War. It could be a prank. But then, you can bet I'd think twice before I showed my face in St. Croix Bluffs after dark
again. I was a gun-shy man. I had to talk to someone. So after three or four days of agony, I called the FBI."
TOUGH TALK AT THE TOP.
Authorities at the telephone company and at the Federal Bureau of Investigation have been plagued by a rash of
what authorities are calling "the telephone intimidators" -people who use the nation's 'phone systems to scare or abuse
innocent citizens with life-threatening or obscene 'phone calls.
Up until this year, the menace was not widespread enough to warrant a full-scale investigation. But now J. Edgar
Hoover's G-men are attacking the problem with a crack squad of electrical experts who, working with engineers at the Bell
System and Western Electric, hope to bring the plague under control in the near future.
"We're going to bring 'phone abusers to justice," says Hoover. "Already legislation is pending in the House and Senate
that will make telephone threats and abuse a Federal offense."
While most of the reports of 'phone abuse are prank calls, a great number are actual threats on people's lives. Take,
for instance, the case of Mafia boss Louis Gambognini, who died last year in a hail of bullets outside his Providence,
Rhode Island, fortress. His last words were made to one of his aides as he stepped out of the front door of his mansion:
"The punks are threatening me over the telephone now. Can you believe that? They say they're going to gun me down."
But cases like Bob Lundstrom's are more the norm. Readers will be happy to note that Lundstrom's case turned out to be
nothing more than a random 'phone call made from a crossroads diner just outside of Great Prairie.
"It was probably just a drunken truck driver on his way back to Mississippi," said FBI Midwestern Director of
Operations Harold Pinkolt.

National Detective Gazette
"The point is that if victims respond quickly enough, we may have time to respond quickly enough, we may have time
to trace the call back to its origin and nail the perpetrator," Pinkolt says. The FBI is putting together an elaborate tracer
system that Pinkolt says "will nail the offenders in a matter of minutes," Sources close to the story say that the new tracer
system - code-named "Operation Infocept" -is still a long way from being indefectible.
An FBI agent in Minneapolis, who demanded anonymity, detailed this exclusive story for the Nat'l Detective Gazette.
"We spend a lot of time sitting around playing gin rummy, you know. Shoot, my first assignment in Minneapolis was a
stakeout that lasted nine days, and the guy wasn't nowhere near the building we were watching. But this 'Operation Infocept'
is really something. See, we're trying out this new tracer system, and we got our first call from a panicky housewife out in
Stillwater, who said she got a call from someone who was going to kidnap her the next time she went down to the
drugstore for a soda. Well, instead of asking questions, we hooked right up into the system and traced the call back to a
house out in Dellwood. So we - me and five other fully armed agents - sped out there in hopes of catching the punk redhanded.
We should have known something was fishy when we showed up at 38 Lakeland Drive, and it was a beautiful
two-story Colonial. But we didn't have time to think about all that. We busted in the front door, and all we found was this
woman with her baby fixing dinner and listening to the radio. I guess the system traced the 'phone call to the wrong place,
because that lady sure didn't seem like she'd be making threatening 'phone calls. We never did get our man. But you
know, we're still working out the kinks.
"The kicker is, we come to find out later that the lady who had been threatened didn't even drink soda. And that she
lived out in the sticks, about thirty miles from the nearest drugstore. She only went into town about once a week!"
Director Pinkolt had little comment on this particular case. He said only, "As with any new crime-solving accessory, it
takes some time to perfect the system. We don't let minor mishaps deter us from our goals."
Meanwhile, back in Washington, Director Hoover has set a five-year deadline for the total implementation of
'Operation Infocept.' Criminologists here at the Gazette and at police departments all over the country eagerly await new
developments in the field of electric surveillance and interception. Hover promises not to let us down.

National Detective Gazette
The day will come - perhaps not in our lifetimes, but surely in the early part of the next millennium - when machines will be
the most important tool of the detective's craft.
This prediction, which I have named the Pathos Parabola Hypothesis (PPH), has been a hotly contested issue ever
since I first presented it at the American Criminologists Conference in 1934. Veteran detectives have been laggard in
accepting the inevitability of this cataclysm. But careful deduction and rational extrapolation bear out the validity of the
PPH.
Editor's note: Dr. Klotz uses many big words. But he refused to let us edit his column on the grounds that it would, as he
says, "enervate the verisimilitude of my contentions" -whatever that means.
One day machines with brains - not flaccid gray cerebellums, but brains of humming wires, trembling electrodes and
glowing cathodes - will be doing the exhaustive legwork of ten, even fifty hawkshaws. The crime lab will be replete with
unctuous robots and eager automatons. But real heroes will not be these machines; on the contrary, they will be the
honest men and women who build and operate the machines. They, together with their whirring, beeping mnemonic
devices, will be the ones who abrogate crime in the next millennium.
Editor's note: What the doctor is trying to say is that pretty soon you're going to be solving crimes with machines. And if
you don't like that, try a baseball bat.
To the doubters and denigrators who remain impervious to my predictions, I offer a whole host of already existing
technological achievements that provide proof of the ceaseless procession of the techno-sophisticative march into the
future! The radio: where would any metropolitan police force be without it? Yet, only twenty years ago, when the first
commercial broadcast came over KDKA Pittsburgh, there were thousands who believe it would never last. The telephone:
ten years ago, had you any conception of the powers of surveillance and intercept that the telephone provided? Today,
would any law enforcement agency be able to survive without the everyday 'phone tap? And you may have gazed in
astonishment at the newest wonder machine, the so-called television. Who would have thought that one day a visual
panoply of optic enchantment would oscillate unseen over the airwaves? And who, ten years from today, will deny the
incredible powers of surveillance and eavesdropping that the television provides?
Editor's note:Dr. Klotz's so-called "television" does indeed exist. Whether or not it can be of assistance in the
apprehension of criminals remains to be seen. Klotz's opinions are not necessarily the opinions of this publication.
At this point, the Pathos Parabola Hypothesis is irrefutably valid. But, as with any brilliant concept, there comes a
juncture where what is known must be relegated to the back of our minds and what is recondite must be explored. So, for
a moment, suspend what is known, unharness your inhibitions, unfetter your foregone conclusions and imagine the next
great invention...THE ELECTRO MAGIC BRAIN (EMB).

Editor's note: As this issue goes to press, Dr. Klotz has exiled himself to Walla Walla, Washington, where he continues
his EMB research. Much of the scientific community has discounted this portion of the Pathos Parabola Hypothesis. But
in the Nat'l Detective Gazette tradition, we print even the most phantasmagorical segments of the doctor's postulates.
National Detective Gazette
As a scientist and a moralist, I am not at liberty to divulge the details of my 10-year employment in the service of our
FBI. Suffice to say that the Bureau maintains some type of dossier on every man women and child in these United States
of America.
One day, all the information that is contained in these files will be electro-machanically sealed inside the circuits of
gigantic Electro Magic Brains. At the issue of a single cryptic voice command, such as "OKLIT VOS FROB VEN-VEN
DOOBELDEE." the brain will regurgitate reams of information stored within its vast memory. Smaller versions of the brain
will be linked to the main-brain through an extensive wire system called a "meshwork." And these micro-brains will be able
to communicate with the main-brain in a special brain language known to only a select few law-enforcement officials
throughout the nation. Information will be permanently stored on tiny ticker-tape machines using a binary code of dots and
dashes similar to Morse Code. Other codes will be organized into logical packages of information and commands that
determine what the machine does. These packages will be bundled together into crime-solving "programs."
Obviously, the minute details of the Electro Magic Brain's operation and utility remain in question. We are still in the
conceptual stages of development. Yet, the powers that be in our vast national security service have deemed the EMB the
vanguard of our future efforts in crime control for the next millennium. I, for one, have no misgivings about the plausibility of
the Electro Magic Brain. Its day is coming. Those who fail to utilize the potentials of tomorrow will be living in the past. I
implore detectives everywhere to heed this message.
Editor's note: The Nat'l detective Gazette has begun to see the wisdom of some of Klotz's predictions. We have just
acquired two mechanical adding machines for our accounting department.

National Detective Gazette
by Capt. Jock Barnes
Give me five minutes of your time, and I'll tell you a story that will make you think twice about bustin' up a love nest.
I'm going to relate the details of just one case to you. I think it gives you a pretty good idea of what the heck danger is. If
you haven't learned anything after reading this, you ought to consider going back to selling ladies' shoes at Montgomery
Wards.
I used to work with a guy named Paul Kelly. I liked that guy a lot; I walked a beat with him for six years. The Barrio,
Watts. We even did a few weeks' detail down at Muscle Beach. We were friends. We used to drink together. He and his
wife Paula used to come over on Saturdays, and we'd drive up the coast to Atascadero where we used to swim. That
was a long time ago. Paul's dead now. I watched him die because of our stupidity. I watched a man sink a rusty
screwdriver into his gut while I lay half-conscious on the kitchen floor of a grimy little apartment in east L.A. It was a
pointless murder. One that shouldn't have happened.
It started as just another simple domestic case. It was August - hot as a grasshopper's rear-end in a brush fire. A
woman called the precinct about six o'clock one Saturday evening all in a conniption. She said her husband was trying to
kill her because she was messing around with the milkman or some such nonsense. To tell you the truth, I don't
remember. Paul and I were in the area, so we checked it out. It was half hour to shift change, and we didn't feel like
making an evening of it, if you catch my drift. We didn't case the joint before we went up. That was our first mistake.
Before we knew shucks for Shinola, we were backed up against the kitchen wall with a sawed-off shotgun dancing
lullabies before our eyes. I noticed a picture of the Pope hanging on the wall behind the guy with the gun. Very comforting.
Paul was on my left, next to the kitchen table. I stood beside him facing the guy. Behind me was an open door and a
hallway leading off into the living room. We had to think fast. I started talking to the guy, telling him he didn't need the gun.
We were only there to answer the complaints of his wife, who at this time I didn't see. I though for a minute that the guy
might have already bumped her off, so I started to get a little scared, thinking he didn't really have anything more to lose
by knocking off a couple of cops. I looked at Paul and knew right away what he was thinking. He was ready to go for the
guy's gun if I could just distract his attention for a split second. I asked him if he and his wife needed to see a marriage
counselor or something. He laughed at me and then started getting mad. I guess he didn't like the idea of me and Paul
busting up his little party. While I was trying to calm the dude down, Paul gave a little head fake and went for the gun. Paul
was quick as sin. He used to play semi-pro ball with the Escondido Onions. I saw him get hold of the barrel just as it
exploded. I went down like a ton of bricks with an incredible blow to the head. I thought I was hit, but when I
looked up I saw the lovely housewife standing over me with a rolling pin. She had opened up a pretty big gash in my
noggin, and I was dazed bad. I could see Paul across the room struggling with the dude. The gun had sprayed wide, but
Paul still managed to take a couple pellets in the arm. The guy had him down on the floor and was reaching for a
screwdriver when I started to yell. That was the last thing I remember. The old lady cuffed me again with the equalizer
and the next thing I knew, I was in the hospital. Paul died from the stab wounds. And that was that.
O.K., so what's the moral to the story? You figure it out. There we were, two cock-sure cops with a combined
experience of a whopping twelve years. It was Saturday night, and we didn't feel much like hanging around the zoo. We
were impatient, clumsy and stupid. We paid a high price for it, too. You don't have to.
Always case a joint before you start busting down doors. See who's who and what's what. Play it cool; don't be a jerk.
People don't like jerks - especially jerks in uniform. These domestic squabbles never have to end up like this. Just have a
little consideration for the parties involved. They don't want spectators at their fistfights. They get mad easy. They're already
mad. That guy, Johnny Cordoba, he didn't mean to kill Paul. And his wife there, sweet Suzy with the rolling pin, she was
probably getting ready to take it out on Johnny when we happened to walk in. So I ended up getting the wood. It just goes to
prove that in the heat of passion, people like that will strike out at anything and anybody. So don't get in their way. You're a
referee, not a participant. But that doesn't do Paul any good now. Johnny Cordoba's up at San Quentin for the next 60 years
making license plates, and Paul is gone. It didn't have to happen that way. Don't let it happen to you!
Captain Barnes is a retired LAPD veteran who walked the Angel City beat for over 40 years. He now lives with his wife
June and his dog Fang in retirement in Redondo Beach.

--

L.A.
gumshoes
rate the
watering
holes.
There are jock bars, jazz bars,
junker bars and jive bars. But
where do off-duty L.A. detectives
go when they need a moment's
reflection and a stiff
drink? Our West Coast Gazette
staffer surveyed over a
hundred law-enforcement
types and asked them to pick
the five best bars in the area.
1. The Condor's Nest, 2424
Caristas Springs Blvd., L.A.
Far and away the favorite, this
dark and secluded haven has
everything but a snooker
table.
2. The Shasta Lounge, Beacon
Court, Hollywood. For
the best selection of single
malts and imported ales, you
can't do any better than this.
3. Fish Camp, MacArthur
Wharf, Long Beach. Longshoremen
and the law mix in
this unpretentious warehouse
bar. Cheap.
4. The Bel Pre, 4162 Gardena
Rd., Torrance. L.A.'s darkest
and most secret rendezvous.
5. The Brass Lantern, corner
Berez and LaVezza, San
Fernandito. Where all good
cops go when they need to get
out of town. Try the Moo Goo
Gai Pan!

--

With Peters ammunition there's less
chance of your missing!
fOI MATCH SHOOTING-these machine.
rest group$ prove that Peters Police
Match ammunition hi moce accurate.
Such grouping• are pos•ible only because
of precision manufacturing operations
and superior technical control.
Announced a little more than a year ago,
Peters Police Match has proved itself on
the range as well as in the laboratory.
Consistent wins:, new recoTdS in important
matches, show what a definite advance
this ammunition is in pistol and
revolver acxuracy. Made in .22 rim fire,
and .32, .38 and .4S center fire.
POI IIOULAI SIRVICI SHOOTINGthere's
a complete line of Peters Rustless
center fire service cartridges- .32's, .38'•
and .45's. These cartridges are specified
and r=gnized as standard ammunition
by polire departments of leading cities,
.ond foremost law enforcement ai:encies.

Mouth of cartridge case and the primer
are sealed by the Qi!. Tite process developed
in Peters labor a tori es to protect
powder and primer from oil-seepage.
fOR HIGHWAY• "ATIOL WORK-Peters
Rustless Highway Patrol cartridges.38'
s and .45's-with meta.I penetrating
bullets, are made especially for police
use. They have greater penetrating power
than any other cartridge on the market.
In sensational tests simulating shot& fired
at a. fleeing bandit car, these bullea
pierced a motor truck engine I
Whichever type or calibre you need,
Peters is the Ammunition That Inspire,i
Confidence.

--

YOU'RE 
"  in for the kill..."  
BUT YOU MAY BE LEAVING 
FEET FIRST! 
  Los Angeles, 1938: a seething brew of 
tawdry glamour and ill-gotten glitter, 
tinsel and tong wars, scandals, 
speakeasies and skullduggery. But out 
here in the foothills, listening to the 
Santa Ana Wind howl its way through 
canyons that seem continents away 
from the black-hearted pit of the Big 
Avocado, a small-town chief police 
detective like you can almost feel at 
peace with the world. Almost, but not 
quite. Because there's something in the 
wind, something that could turn your 
tranquil tank town into the newest 
feature exhibit at Madame Tussaud's. 
You've been summoned by 
telegram to the bungalow of one of the 
local "pillars of society," a soldier of 
fortune in need of protection from the 
threats of a sleazy writer who has him 
over the ropes. There's more to this 
case than meets the eye, however. One 
stiff has turned up already, and Death 
is poised to strike again, this time with 
you as the witness. You'll have just 12 
hours to sift through scores of clues, 
follow up on a dozen leads and give a 
household of suspects the third degree. 
Your faithful assistant, Sgt. Duffy, who 
can run errands for you and give 
advice, will be on the scene. But you 
alone can persuade the court to render 
a verdict of guilty by establishing the 
motive, method and opportunity for the 
crime. Unless, of course, someone puts 
you to bed with a shovel first. Hasta 
luego, hawkshaw, and best of luck with 
your sleuthing.

--

BALL GOES ON WITHOUT
GUEST OF HONOR LINDER
Amidst diamond-studded society
hoopla, the Los Angeles Charity Ball
went on last night without Goodwill
Ambassador of the Year Award
recipient and keynote speaker
Freeman Linder. He was unable to
attend due to the tragic shooting death
of his wife on Sunday (see related story
Page 2. Column 8).
Linder's absence didn't seem to dampen
the spirits of the other 800 party-goers at
the fifty dollar-a-plate, black-tie affair.
Motion picture mogul Gaunt Rockwood
served as emcee for the event. which
was attended by local civic and social
leaders.
Standing in for Linder was his long-time
business associate and traveling companion
Yukio Matsuyama.
Matsuyama, a Japanese business man who
immigrated to the U.S. in 1920, delivered a
captivating speech about Linder's life-long
love affair with the peoples of the Orient.
Linder, the 10th recipient of the award, has
been active in Asian business and charities
since 1900 when he was stationed in China
as a marine. His business, Pacific Trade
Associates. is an international import-export
company devoted to the exchange of goods
between the U.S.A. and Asia. After founding
the company in 1922. Linder spent 13 of the
next 15 years in Tokyo, Hong Kong. and
Peking only returning home sporadically to
see his family. Through this Asiatic
association Linder has developed a strong tie
with the languages and culture of the region.
On his infrequent returns to Los Angeles.
Linder has given almost all of his energies to
Asian Charities In fact. in a speech he
delivered several years ago
Linder said that he felt closer to his adopted Asian
families than he did to his own. During his extended
absences his wife had served as director of the Asian-
American School and Cultural Center, the largest
institution of its kind in the United States. Linder
started the school in 1925.
Mr. Matsuyama spiced his delivery with accounts of
Linder's exploits during his early days in the Orient. As
a marine, Linder took part in the Boxer Rebellion In
Shanghai in 1900. In 1904, he returned to the States and
tried to fit into the coat-and-tie working world.
However, his adventurous lifestyle lured him back to
Hong Kong, where in 1907 he was rumored to have
contracted as a "for hire" mercenary. In 1910, he
returned home to marry and start a family only to be
drawn back to Tokyo soon after. There he served as a
civilian engineer in the Japanese Navy between 1912
and 1922. During that period he became a personal
friend of Hirohito, who is now Emperor of Japan. An
illness in Linder's family forced him to return home in
1922, at which time he founded Pacific Trade
Associates, Within the year he was back in the Orient.
Partygoers were transfixed by Matsuyama's discourse
on the problems that face the Asian people in this
country and what Linder has done to help alleviate
those problems. Mr. Linder is a self-taught multi-lingual
whose never-ending dedication to the causes of social
Justice has made him one of Los Angeles' most admired
and successful businessmen.
Near the end of his address, Matsuyama invoked the
prayers of those attending the ball for the soul of
Linder's wife. Virginia. She was found dead in their
Cabeza Plana home Sunday, the victim of a gunshot
wound. Police are investigating the incident, but thus far
no arrests have been made.
Proceeds from the ball will go towards the
establishment of a new youth center in downtown Los
Angeles.


--

Monica Dearest --
I can live with this sadness no longer. For twenty-nine years,
your father has lived his own life without me. Now I am taking the only way out.

Monica, you mustn't blame yourself in any way for what I am about to do. Nor should you blame Ralph.
The affair with him was only a futile attempt to prove I was a woman, not just a piece in a Freeman's collection.

Tell your illustrious father how deeply I regret soiling one of his precious revolvers.
Mother

--

001 FR YS LOS ANGELES CA 02-18 849A PST=

PMS CHIEF DETECTIVE=
POLICE HEADQUARTERS=
CABEZAPLANAC A=

BELIEVE STILES ENDANGERMS Y LIFE STOP URGENTLYR EQUEST=
YOUR ASSISTANCE STOP PLEASE COME TO 4986 LYMAN DRIVE=
AT EIGHT THIS EVENING STOP

FREEMAN LINDER
CONF 4986

--

FEBRUARY 1938, LOS ANGELES. 
FDR's New Deal is finally rolling. 
Hitler's rolling, too; this time through 
Austria. But as Chief Detective for a 
quiet burgh on the outskirts of L.A., 
you've got other fish to fry. 
One gilt-edged society dame is dead. 
And now it looks like some two-bit 
grifter is putting the screws to her multi-
millionaire old man. Then you step in, 
and the shakedown turns ugly. You're 
left with a stiff and a race against the 
clock to nail your suspect... unless you 
get nailed first! 
Nobody said a sordid family affair 
like this was going to be a cinch. 
Everyone from the knockout heiress to 
the poker-faced butler may end up in the 
slammer before it's over. Ahead of you is 
a Gordian knot of motives and alibis. 
And the only testimony you can trust is 
that of your own eyes--because you are 
The WITNESS. 
 
GET INSIDE A STORY. 
GET ONE FROM INFOCOM! 
It's like waking up inside a story! Load 
Infocom's interactive fiction into your 
computer and discover yourself at the 
center of a world jam-packed with 
surprising twists, unique characters and 
original, logical, often hilarious puzzles. 
For the first time, you're more than a 
passive reader. You can talk to the story, 
typing in full English sentences. And the 
story talks right back, communicating 
entirely in vividly descriptive prose. 
What's more, you can actually shape the 
story's course of events through your 
choice of actions. And you have 
hundreds of alternatives at every step. In 
fact, there's so much you can see and do, 
your investigation can last for weeks and 
even months. 
To find the Infocom interactive story 
that's right for you, just choose any one 
marked with the level of difficulty listed 
below that best matches your current 
level of interactive skill. 
 
Junior: Best introduction to interactive 
fiction. Written for everyone from age 9 
up. 
 
Standard: Good introductory level for 
adults. This is Infocom's most popular 
level of interactive fiction. 
 
Advanced: A greater level of challenge. 
Recommended for those who've already 
experienced Infocom's interactive fiction. 
 
Expert: For real diehards seeking the 
ultimate challenge in interactive fiction. 
 
Then find out what it's like to get inside a 
story. Get one from Infocom. Because 
with Infocom's interactive fiction, there's 
room for you on every disk. 
 
INFOCOM 
55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138 
 
For your: Apple II, Macintosh, Atari, 
Commodore 64, DECmate, DEC Rainbow, 
DEC RT-11, HP 150 & 110, IBM PC* & 
PCjr, KAYPRO II, MS-DOS 2.0,* Osborne, 
TI Professional, TI 99/4A, Tandy 2000, TRS-
80 Color Computer, TRS-80 Models I & III. 
 
*Use the IBM PC version for your Compaq 
and the MS-DOS 2.0 version for your Wang, 
Mindset, Data General System 10, GRiD and 
many others. 

