[TV screen showing "snow" ie. no program. Across this TV screen the title of this column is printed in red
letters: "TV TIDBITS"]
Three headed tot wins hearts in Hollywood
Three Heads Are Better than One!
[Photo of a young beauty with black hair. She is on a yacht, wearing a naval officer cap and holding a pair of
binoculars. She is looking somewhere far away, we can't see where. The photo is accompanied with this text:
“Relaxing on the family yacht bought with son Jeffrey's film advance, Tootsie Goldman looks into a bright
future.”]
When the nurse in the maternity hospital first held us Susan "Tootsie" Goldman's three-headed son, the
Massachusetts mother "almost died of shock." But today, Mrs. Goldman is thanking God for her son's
abnormality. The tyke, now four years old, has just signed a three million dollar contract with GUM studios.
"That's a million dollars per head!" giggles Mrs. Goldman.
Little Jeffrey Goldman will star in a prime-time sitcom about an alien child adopted by a Beverly Hills couple. To
roll out the series, GUM will release a 2-hour pilot show this summer.
"It's sort of like a cross between E.T. and Mork and Mindy," says the proud mom. "Jeffie plays an adorable little
creature from outer space who's hunted down and almost killed before this very wealthy couple takes him into
their hearts. Then once he is adopted, he has all kinds of funny little habits that drive his family wild."
Because Jeffrey's three heads often try to do or say different things at the same time, each head will be
separately coached for the series. Tootsie Goldman will be on hand to help with practical matters.
"It's not easy taking care of a three-headed child," says Mrs. Goldman. "His clothes have to be tailor-made and
his meals must be carefully monitored. We'd end up with very fat little boy if each head ate as much as it
wanted to."
Tootsie Goldman is quick to add that the endearing qualities of her unique son far outweigh the disabilities.
"He's very sweet, and it's lots of fun to watch his three heads talking all at once." GUM execs are betting that
home viewers will agree.

GERBIL TERRORIZES GRAMPS
[Photo showing a face of a frightened old man with silver hair. He doesn't look helpless though, because he is a
bit corpulent and there must be plenty of strength left in him. The photo has some additional following text.]
Thomas Veldran is still recovering from his terrifying encounter with a psychotic gerbil.
An 84-year-old great-grampa was terrorized by a psychotic gerbil that laid waste to his Dallas home.
Thomas Veldran received the animal as a birthday gift from his grandchildren. When he opened the cage, the
crazed rodent sprang out and began racing wildly around the house, clawing and biting at curtains, furniture and
severely maiming Mr. Veldran's pet lizard.
Grampy's shouts alerted a neighbor, who broke into the house just as the gerbil leapt at Mr. Veldran, intent on
who knows what sort of molestation.
"That little critter was buggy as a swamp in August," said Billy Peamont. "I throwed the wastebasket over it and
slammed one of them tea trays right on top. We got it all right. We could hear it banging around inside the
wastebucket, but we called the police and they did the necessary."
Tests revealed that the animal had no signs of organic disease and was assumed to be truly psychotic. Candy
Jo Heaver, owner of the Dallas pet store where the animal was purchased, said she would have the other
gerbils checked by a pet psychologist.
[The whole above article is printed on gray background. The following article is printed on white background,
except the title which is on yellow background.]
TINSELTOWN TATTLE
with Shayna Waltz
In death as in life, it was roses for HILDEGARDE BURBANK. The Malibu hostess was well known for her
dazzling rose garden, whose luxuriant blooms filled the oceanfront bungalow she shared with late hubby
BUDDY BURBANK. At her star-studded funeral last Tuesday at Cathedral in the Pines, Hollywood paid tribute
to a great lady with thousands of fragrant coral roses.
The blooms decorated altar and pews, and covered the elegant coral-colored coffin. Although the casket was
closed according to Hildy's wishes, the dear departed reportedly wore a matching coral sating gown.
Attending Hildy's funeral and the memorial reception at trendy Bolla-Bolla in West Hollywood were many of the
stars made famous by Buddy Burbank Studios. BUCK PALACE arrived carrying two dozen roses in a combat
helmet which he placed at the head of the casket. HEIDI KORN, star of innumerable B B Studio westerns,
looked stunning in the scarlet taffeta dress she wore in Buckeroo Barmaid. Not to be missed was DOROTHY
LAFLANK, whose lovely outfit resembled a gigantic coral rosebud.
Rumors are flying as to who will inherit Buddy and Hildy's multimillion estate. Shayna places her bet on
"LITTLE HERMAN" BEAUMONT, favored nephew of the couple who starred in the popular Little Herman TV
series in the late 60's.
[On the right of the above article, is a photo of Aunt Hildegarde when she was in her prime time – beautiful
woman with long blond hair and, as always, designer clothes. She is holding a tray in her right hand.]
Hildy sets an elegant table at a lavish party in Hildebud's heyday.

HILDY TAKES FINAL BOW
CHAPTER IN HOLLYWOOD HISTORY DRAWS TO A CLOSE
Special to TINSELWORLD by Winona Sullivan
With the death of Hildegarde Burbank last Tuesday at the Malibu beachfront bungalow, a chapter in Hollywood
history drew to a close. Hildegarde was the "Queen" behind the mogul Buddy Burbank, the "King of the B's."
Burbank, who died several years ago of a massive heart attack, produced, directed, and starred in numerous
movies released by his Buddy Burbank Studios. Although some say the flicks are of no real value, others
recognize them as the high point of low-budget films.
Buddy and Hildegarde first met in 1948 when Buddy was a young actor with GUM. Yearning to oversee his own
studio, he approached Hildegarde's father, wealthy financier Curtis Montague. Horrified by the young man's plan
to offer post-war America a series of low-grade, light entertainment films, the cultivated "Monty" turned him
down.
The next day, Hildegarde appeared at Buddy's dressing room on the GUM lot. Twelve years his senior, she was
a former debutante living a humdrum existence of afternoon teas and charity benefits. She also yearned for
something of her own: a life that would better match her feisty nature and taste for adventure.
Hildegarde offered Buddy unlimited use of her ample trust fund to start his own studio, provided she had a hand
in its operation. There was only one problem – Hildegarde could not draw from her fund until she was married.
Luckily, the stately Hildegarde answered Buddy's dreams in more ways than one. He proposed that very
afternoon and they were quietly married in Las Vegas the following morning.
[Photo of Aunt Hildegarde in her middle age. Always a star, she smiles kindly into the camera.]
Hildegarde Burbank was the steadying hand behind Buddy Burbank Studios for nearly forty years.
[Photo from the scene of filming – full of cameras, lighting equipment, actors, extras, etc. Even though the
photo is a still, it still bustles with activity.]
The back lot at B B Studios bustled with activity during the filming of the horrifying graduation scene
in Bees Do It.
Despite her father's recriminations, Hildegarde went on to prove that she had made a good investment. Buddy
Burbank Studios rapidly rose to acclaim with such classic hits as Attack of the Killer Rutabagas, Bees Do It,
and It Came from the Neighbor's House. The studio's prominence continued through the 60's, riding the crest
of the wave of low-budget films.
Hollywood celebrities flocked to Hildebud, the palatial oceanfront bungalow the couple built in trendy Malibu. The
luxurious home was decorated with memorabilia from Buddy Burbank films hits as well as souvenirs from the
couple's travels around the globe. Hildegarde's rose garden was long the envy of the Malibu community, and
their private beachfront was the scene of many a star-studded luau.
The couple never had any children, deciding that the studio was enough of a job to nurture. They were,
however, very close to their numerous nieces and nephews, who were often invited to spend holidays with
"Uncle Buddy and Aunt Hildegarde."

When the craze for "B" movies died down in 1970's, Buddy introduced a new star in the form of Buck Palace,
the fighting letter carrier. With his rock-hard physique, weapons at-the-ready, and determination to fight for
justice whatever the weather, Buck was the idol of millions of youngsters.
Following Buddy's death, Hildegarde continued to control a majority of Buddy Burbank Studios. She also
maintained her reputation as a hostess, although her parties were on a much smaller scale than before. The
past few months, she has been seen about town with record producer Tony Paoli, and it had been hinted that a
marriage proposal was in the offing.
It is not known what will happen to Buddy Burbank Studios without the ample funding of Hildegarde Burbank.
Details of her will have yet to be released, but family members are expected to inherit.
[Photo showing Hildegarde with Tony Paola. Both wear sunglasses, he is half bald, wearing a shirt with stripes.
She wears two pearl necklaces.]
In a recent photo, Hildy relaxes on the beach at Malibu with record producer Tony Paoli.
Out of Luck?
Within hours of receiving your Blessed Unicorn keyring, your luck will change. Money will glide into your hands,
lovers will find you irresistible, co-workers will bend to your power. Personally blessed by Rev. Olga. Put the
legendary power of the unicorn to work for you. Send $17.00 to Rev. Olga, 1498 Avenue B, NY, NY.

“I went from
TUBBY TO TRIM!”
[Photo of a not-so-young long haired blonde, smiling into the camera. Her happiness seems fake, but
nevertheless. She is holding a shopping bag. And she looks thin.]
Lovely Suzy Frankle holds a shopping bag full of the tasty food she was allowed to eat on the Fat-Melt
Diet. “I went from tubby to trim,” says Suzy, “and so can you!”
[Fat-Melt Diet logo is yellow – words “FAT-MELT” are green and written with fat letters that are slowly melting
away. Under them is written simply “chewing gum” in black letters.]
“When I looked in the mirror and realized my high school reunion was only 3 days away, I practically burst into
tears,” says Suzy Frankle of Tewksburg, Ohio. “I looked so fat and frumpy! Then a friend told me about the
fantastic Fat-Melt Diet, the 2-day miracle that actually melts fat off your body. In just 48 hours, I lost an amazing
22 pounds without missing a single meal!”
“There were no uncomfortable rubber belts to wear, exercises to do, or chemical supplements to take. Just a
delicious piece of Fat-Melt chewing gum three times a day. My husband Robby was so delighted with my new
figure that we almost didn't make it to the reunion!”
Join Suzy and thousands of other satisfied women who chewed their way from tubby to trim with the incredible
Fat-Melt Diet. It's doctor-approved! Here's how it works:
Eat whatever you like for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Just follow up each meal with a piece of Fat-Melt chewing
gum. Fat-Melt disintegrates the food while it's still in your stomach, before it has a chance to turn into ugly fat.
And the heat caused by the combustive process melts other fats in your body, letting you go from tubby to trim
in mere days!
Best of all, you don't feel a thing. No discomfort, no hunger pangs. Just the satisfaction of looking like a million.
A pack of Fat-Melt chewing gum (6 pieces) costs only $3.95. You can't afford NOT to order! Send cash or
money order (no personal checks, please) to Dr. S. E. Meretzky, P.O. Box 33, Sudcity, MD. If you're in a hurry
to get started on your Fat-Melt Diet, enclose an extra $2 for special handling and write “HURRY” on the outside
of your envelope.
[»PLEASE NOTE!« is written in a star shaped little yellow balloon.]
[The following text is written in double box outline.]
Nothing is more effective than Fat-Melt chewing gum when you want to lose weight fast. It uses a
natural combustive process to shape your body into a slim, trim form that will be the envy of all your
friends. Naturally, the astounding results mentioned in this advertisement cannot be achieved solely
through the use of Fat-Melt chewing gum. You must follow the special Fat-Melt Weight Loss Plan
inscribed on each gum wrapper. Although Fat-Melt causes pound after pound of unsightly fat to
literally melt away, it is still completely safe. However, before beginning this or any weight loss
program, you should check with your doctor to make sure you are in normal health. The potent
combustible in Fat-Melt chewing gum should not be used by children, pregnant women, the elderly,
people on any other kind of medication, or those with heart disease, diabetes, high blood pressure,
thyroid disease, or any other kind of pre-existing medical condition. Fat-Melt chewing gum is not for
sale to minors. This advertisement is void where prohibited by law.

Who will Inherit the Burbank Bundle?
by Gayle von Syska, intimate friend of Hildegarde Burbank
[This text is printed on red background on upper left portion of the page. It is intended to catch reader's attention
while they are leafing through the magazine.]
SPECIAL TO TINSELWORLD!!
Gayle von Syska, intimate friend of Buddy and Hildegarde Burbank, tells who she thinks will inherit
the Burbank Bundle.
Hildy and Buddy Burbank lived a life that combined shrewd business pursuits with all-out fun. When visiting
Hildebud, I never knew whether to expect an analysis of the stock market or a whoopee cushion! One thing that
never varied was Hildy and Buddy's love for their home. From Buddy's light-hearted jokes and Hollywood
mementos to Hildegarde's elegant furnishings and lovely rose garden, Hildebud reflected its owners' dedication
to living life at its fullest.
Hildy always told me she wanted Hildebud to pass on to someone who would love and care for it as much as
she did. And, knowing how generous and farsighted Hildy was, she would make sure that person had the
financial resources to do so. Hildy and Bundy were not blessed with children of their own, but they did have
nieces and nephews they dearly loved. I believed the Burbank fortune will be left to one of them.
[The following text is written in red letter on gray arrow-shaped background pointing to next page.]
EXCLUSIVE PHOTOS
NEXT PAGE
[The lower half of the page is taken by the following ad.]
DILL PICKLES
ADD YEARS
TO YOUR LIFE!
Doctors have confirmed what pregnant women always knew: dill pickles are good for your health!
The secret ingredient is vinegar, which clears the arteries of fat. Increased blood flow improves brain function,
making you feel youthful and vigorous regardless of your age. Doctors advise that for best results you should
purchase fresh drill pickles from a deli rather than eating the supermarket variety.
[On the right of above text is a photo of a young construction worker, naked from waist up, his body oiled and
covered with muscles. He is smiling into the camera as he is taking a bite of something that must be a dill
pickle sandwich.]
Ever wonder why construction workers are so strong and healthy? It's because they pack dill pickles
from the deli in their lunchboxes!

TINSELWORLD
EXCLUSIVE
Photos from Gayle von Syska's
personal album
[Photo two young boys and a girl in an inflatable boat. The little girl is in the middle rowing, while boys are each
on his side of the boat. They both have very short hair, while the girl has raven black hair reaching her
shoulders. In the distance we a couple of swimmers as the sea stretches all the way to horizon and beyond.]
Three of Hildegarde and Bundy Burbank's numerous nieces and nephews frolic in the cove at Hildebud
in the mid-60's. One the left is "Little Hermann" Beaumont.
[Photo of a big mansion that would look really great if it wouldn't had been made of wood, as is usually the case
in America. Lots of windows, pillars, porches, chimneys, etc. Neatly made driveway, tended-to bushes lawn in
the front and the sea in the distance behind the mansion.]
Hildebud, palatial home of Hildegarde and Buddy Burbank, as it looked in the fabulous fifties.
Subsequent alterations included the addition of a private theater.
Remembering Buddy Burbank…
The Curtain Falls on a Golden Era
by Brian Moriarty
The ever flamboyant Buddy Burbank
[On the right side of the page is a photo of Buddy Burbank. It shows that he was indeed a man who made it
from the bottom to the top – and that he couldn't handle the financial riches he gained, because his dress
shows the bad taste usually found in people with lots of money, but no style. He is fat, which suggests that
there was some period in his life, when he was starving, so he really made sure, he was never hungry again
later in life. There is some ugly ring on one of his sausage-like finger and a bracelet on his fat wrist. His smile is
a smile of a winner who won against all odds. Same goes for his look. His hair and moustache is colored in
black, but is made so lame, that you can figure that out from a mile away.]
As the curtain went down on Hildegarde Burbank, so too did the curtain fall on a golden era in Hollywood
filmmaking. With no one left to carry on the studio's tradition, it seems likely Buck Palace, the fighting letter
carrier, has delivered his last parcel. Buddy Burbank created over 600 films in his lifetime; many were
landmarks for Burbank as well as the film industry.
We love ya, Buddy Burbank
Burbank was a man who relied on base instincts, who proved that you could make great movies – and plenty of
them – without pandering to trends or the whims of investors. We are lucky to have as his legacy a roster of
fine films that will doubtless be enjoyed for generations.

Buck Palace, The Fighting Mailman
[Photo of Buck Palace in his mailman uniform wearing a mail bag and holding a pile of letters in his hand. He
smiles a typical Hollywood good-guy smile – confident with a hint of don't-mess-with-me-criminals! attitude. He
looks like a guy to call when crazy fanatical reds are invading your house. This whole concept of a crimefighting
mailman is ridiculous, as are other Burbank's movies. ]
Five fantastic films comprised this series about a mild-mannered mailman whose dedication to the Post Office
and the American way of life inspired us all.
[An ad on left side of the page, printed on yellow background, while the rest of the page is on white.]
I am the Lotto Lady
I can turn bad luck to good. Lotto, roulette, horses, any kind of chance. Send me $10.00 donation and I will send
you 3 lucky numbers. Play them and you will win big. Write to Ramoa, P.O. Box 327, Forest Hills, NY.
[End of ad.]
Postage Due
Postage Due, the first in the series, was a break-through film for Burbank. Buck takes on the New York Mafia's
Five Families as they try to cheat the post office out of 8 cents postage due. Buck returns the fire by delivering
each Family's mail to another, thus triggering a war between the Families as payoffs don't arrive and drugs are
misdelivered. The mob counters, ordering Family-operated dry cleaners to triple the starch for all postal
uniforms. Things get tense as mailmen struggle to complete their rounds despite painful rashes. But Buck has
the last laugh. He holds the Five Families' mail at the post office. When the mafia chieftains come to identify
themselves and collect the mail, Buck serves them with a subpoena.
Following the release of this film, the postal system noticed a marked increase in the payment of postage due.
[Photo showing a bad guy from the film mentioned above. He is an old guy pointing a gun at the camera. But he
doesn't look sinister. Instead, he looks very frightened as if he would like to be somewhere else. A very bad
actor indeed.]
In a daring move, Burbank pulled gangster Mugsy Mahoney off the streets of New York to play a Mafia
don in Postage due.
Special Delivery
In the prequel Special Delivery, Buddy examined Buck's early days with the postal service. It's 1962: Fidel
Castro is in Cuba and the President wants him out. Buck is called into the Postmasters General's office and
told that if he kills Castro, postal service funding will be increased 90 percent. Equipped with his trusty mailbag
and a roll of special Cuban stamps with poison adhesive, Buck parachutes into Havana. Using a CIA-prepared
resume, he has no trouble moving into a job as mail room clerk for Castro.
As the weeks pass and Buck waits for his chance, he finds himself uncontrollably attracted to Castro's
personal secretary. Burbank devotes over two minutes of screentime exploring the budding relationship and the
frustrating language barrier between the pair. In a dream sequence, Buck ponders settling down with Castro's
secretary to spend his life censoring Cuban mail. At the end of the dream he wakes in a cold swear, that his
love for freedom of speech is as strong as his love for Maria. His sweetheart agrees to run away with him to
America, but unfortunately uses one of poisoned stamps to notify Castro of her resignation. Buck, heart-broken,
can't complete his mission. Instead, he swims back to the U.S., but not before fighting and destroying over half
the Cuban Navy.
[Photo of a young actress, covered with Hollywood glamour and glitter. She is posing a smile to the camera.]
Lovely Conchita Carlough, one of the many rising starlets from B B Studios, danced the Conga with
Buck in Special Delivery.

Address Unknown
Address Unknown is the fourth in the series. A letter addressed to a POW is returned by Hanoi years after the
end of the war, and Buck is determined to deliver it. After an 18-month wait in Cambodia, Buck is eager to see
action. On a lunch break, he heads for Nam.
Although possessing no knowledge of the Vietnamese language and little of its Zip codes, Buck secures a
position as a letter carrier. After months of on-the-job investigation and a few close calls with water buffalos and
an old anti-personnel weapons, he gets a lead. His supervisor asks him to deliver a pile of "American" junk mail
to a secret camp deep in the jungle. Buck, sensing break and promotion, heads for the camp. When he arrives,
it's just what he expected: American servicemen, chained to worktables, forced to manufacture second-rate
envelopes for the Vietnamese Postal Service. After a few "special deliveries" to the guards' huts, Buck
disguises the men as parcels, mails them to the Pentagon, and hopes they'll pay the postage due.
There weren't many dry eyes in the theatre as Buck sealed the last POW's package.
[Photo of Buck behind the POW's camp fence. He is supposed to look like an internee, but Hollywood got better
– he is in clean shirt, with shiny gel-covered hair and perfect hair-do, with little curl on the forehead included. He
looks like Rock Hudson in his best years, not like an internee in POW's camp in Vietnam.]
In Address Unknown, Buck is the last hope for soldiers imprisoned in a sordid POW work camp.
[On the lower half of the page is another article, printed on gray background with yellow five pointed start in the
middle.]
Star Gazing
by Our Man in Hollywood, Carlo Gelato
HILDEGARDE BURBANK MIGHT LEAVE HER ENTIRE FORTURE TO BUDDY BURBANK STUDIOS. But then
again, maybe she won't. And if she doesn't, the big question on everyone's mind is, what will happen to the
Buddy Burbank stars after the studio closes down? In particular, what will happen to Buck Palace, the fighting
letter carrier?
By now, everyone knows how Buck got to be such a big star. He was just a run-of-the-mill mailman with a
penchant for law and order when he lucked into the Burbank Studio route. One day Buddy Burbank saw Buck
outside the studio, wielding his bazooka to make traffic toe the line so an old lady could cross the street. Well,
as they say, the rest is history. Bud signed Buck for a million-dollar contract and the guy became a star.
BUT WHAT'S THE GOOD OF BEING A STAR IF YOU HAVE TO WEAR YOUR FIGHTING LETTER CARRIER
OUTFIT AND ACT YOUR PART DAY AND NIGHT FOR DECADES? At least Buck used to be able to take off
his uniform when he got home at night. But under contract to Bud Burbank, Buck had to be a fighting letter
carrier 24 hours a day.
When Buck was having a steak-and-sushi sandwich the other day at my joint, trendy Bolla Bolla in West
Hollywood, I asked him what he planned to do now that Bud and Hild were out of the picture.
"Well," said Buck, after complimenting the chef on the delicious sandwich, a specialty of Bolla Bolla, "I don't
want to end up like Roy Rogers, tied to one character for life. I'd like to branch out, step into a different pair of
combat boots. I've considered becoming a fighting Good Humor Man. Think of all the kids who could use my
help."
STARLET DOROTHY LAFLANK HAS ANOTHER ROLE IN MIND FOR THE FIGHTING LETTER CARRIER.
"I'm mad about Buck!" she burbled at a recent Bolla Bolla luncheon. Between appreciative bites of her caviar
enchiladas, a Bolla Bolla lunchtime exclusive, Dorothy talked about her future with Buck. "I'm swooning in a
dream world of love! Soon I'll be Mrs. Buck Palace!"
"Dot's a sweet kid," Buck said when asked to comment, "I like her." Then Buck joined yours truly in a Cola
Cocktail, the tasty house drink at Bolla Bolla.

Burbank's Classic Horror Films
Slash 'n' Chop Sock Hop
In Slash 'n' Chop Hop, the innocent fun of a sock hop turns to horror as band member Queenie Bee goes
berserk, slashing dozens of panic-stricken teens with the stiletto concealed in her microphone. In the ensuing
crush to reach the door, hundreds more are trampled to death.
Flashbacks reveal that the massacre is Queenie's vendetta for getting laughed out of a sock hop Limbo contest
five years earlier. In the gruesome finale, the survivors are forced into a repeat contest on the blood-stained
dance floor. The terrified kids think they have to win to stay alive. Tension builds as the audience realizes
Queenie plans to whittle down the competition, leaving only one Limbo champ - herself.
[Photo of a music band, comprised of five young teenage boys and a girl singer of approximately same age.
There are three guitars and bunch of drums. They are all happy and smiling. They look like a usual teen band
with the style of the fifties, hairdos included. Conformism radiating from this photo is as sickening as a
nowadays photo of Backstreet Boys, for example.]
Following their debut in Slash 'n' Chop, Queenie Bee and the Honeytones became international hits,
joining numerous other Buddy Burbank "finds" who rose to stardom.
Meltdown on Elm Street
The nuclear industry's worst fears are confronted when a neighborhood nuclear power plant malfunctions in
Meltdown on Elm Street. After a spectacular melt-down during the opening credits, things quiet down as those
left alive settle back into their usual routines, only without hair. Soon the survivors begin to experience horrifying
nightmares about a nuclear plant worker who lived through the accident. It's not long before they are unable to
separate their dreams from reality. The "glowboy" becomes real and sets about terrorizing the Elm Street
neighborhood, killing the bald citizens.
The horrifying finale of the film takes place in Elm Street Cinema, where the illuminated antagonist makes his
last deadly appearance. At this point, Burbank once again demonstrated his unique creative talents. He
arranged for an usher in each theatre showing the movie to run up and down the aisles wearing a glowing,
nuclear plant worker's jumpsuit, adding to the on-screen nuclear nightmare.
The overall experience was so horrifying that several moviegoers died of shock, eventually resulting in the film
being banned.
[Photo of Lon Chaney's famous make-up mask from The Hunchback of Notre Dame movie from 1923]
Moviegoers literally died of fright when this face filled the screen in Meltdown on Elm Street.
[An ad from the right bottom of this page printed on yellow background.]
DON'T Throw away those NAIL Clippings!
Just one nail clipping can unlock my psychic powers to reveal the special numbers that will end your money
worries forever. I succeed where others fail. Send nail clippings and $12.00 to Brother Bob, R.F.D. 1992,
Hopperville, IN.

Buddy Burbank's WIDE-REACHING Talent
From special effects to social commentary, Buddy Burbank made his mark in every area of
filmmaking.
With his tongue-in-cheek bloodbath The Day The Movies Died, Burbank trained his cinematic fire on his many
critics in the media. A mysterious cult systematically destroys nearly every copy of every film ever made. An
army of critics, sensing their livelihoods threatened, descends into Hollywood's vast salt mine vault in Utah to
protect and defend what's left of filmdom. At first all is well. Then the critics receive a radio transmission from
the cult, informing them that one of the film canisters in the mine contains a bomb.
A frantic search ensues. Fortunately the bomb is found before it goes off. Unfortunately it's found by critic duo
Cisco and Hebert. As the pair examine the bomb, an argument breaks out about how best to disarm it. The two
exchange verbal barbs until Hebert drops his Goobers on the detonator.
Predictably panned by the critics themselves, many admitted privately to serious introspection of their lives after
viewing the film.
While Bees Do It was not a major artistic step in any direction, it did well at the box office due to an outstanding
in-theatre special effect: Crawl-O-Round. A brainy creation of Burbank's, Crawl-O-Round is a series of small
ion generators placed throughout the theatre. At strategic points in the movie, the generators charge their air
molecules. This causes the hair on movie-goers' arms to stand on end, making it feel as though insects are
crawling on them.
Rumors still persist that Burbank's technology has been subverted and is somehow incorporated into today's
televised insect-repellent commercials.
The Seven Dwarves Do Dallas was Burbank's first and only step in soft-core porn. In later years, he
denounced the film as exploitative and apologized to dwarves of Dallas.
Burbank's Last Film
[Photo of six naked guys wearing only underwear. On their heads they have sort of head-covering shaped as a
devils head (with horns). They also have what seems to be color paper glued on their faces in a shape of pointy
devil's beard and eyebrows. Some of them have tridents and all of them are grinning so evilly, that they look
stupid, not horrifying. Instead being the most frightful, this movie looks the most ridiculous of all Burbank's
movies. The following text is printed over this photo.]
A Corpse Line
This is believed to be the only existing still from Burbank's last masterpiece, A Corpse Line. A close
look will reveal many of Hollywood's leading men.
[The above text is printed in a red box over the photo.]
Burbank's final achievement, A Corpse Line, was never released to the public. Reportedly Burbank was viewing
this film when the Man Upstairs said “cut.” With his last breath, from a plush theatre seat in his screening room,
Burbank proclaimed A Corpse Line his masterwork. The film, thought to be worth millions to his fans today,
was never recovered, and no copy is known to exist.

GOING BALD?
[The title of this ad is printed in red on blue background. Because of this contrast colors layout, the red writing
"GOING BALD?" really stings in your eyes.]
[Photo of an innocent looking guy with lots of black hair and moustache. He looks like a Bavarian stereotype –
short hair in front and long hair in the back with silly moustache, which makes him look really stupid.]
[signature of Stan Dornburg, printed in red]
Sole American Distributor of MIRAHAIR
My name is Stan Dornburg, and I was totally bald by the age of 21. Now I have a full head of thick, lustrous hair.
How did I do it? With MIRAHAIR, the miraculous hair replacement cream. Since regaining my hair, I have
obtained a bank account full of $$$, a beautiful new home with brand new appliances, a slim, attractive figure, a
wide-screen color TV, good luck at Bingo, and full love powers.
Carlo Gelato (pictured below) tried dozens of hair replacement creams, sprays and lotions. Nothing worked.
Then Carlo heard about MIRAHAIR. Within six weeks of growing his luxurious new head of hair, Carlo got a
winning Lotto ticket, a late-model sports car, a fashionable new wardrobe, plenty of dates with voluptuous
women and an exciting job as manager of Hollywood hot spot Bolla Bolla.
Don't you think it's time you received a shiny new car, lasting love, as much money as you want, and all the
other things that came with a full head of healthy hair? I am the sole American distributor of MIRAHAIR, and for
only $29.95 I will send you a gigantic 4 oz. bottle along with a free copy of my best-selling book Hair's To Your
Health.
[Two photos of two guys. One is bald and looks exactly like Faust from The 7th Guest, the other guy is totally
different than the first – he seems to be a Latino or he has a really brown suntan, his eyes and facial
expressions as different and he has lots of black hair on the head.]
Here's Carlo Gelato in actual unretouched photos taken before and after using MIRAHAIR. Says Carlo,
"I'm not afraid to show I looked before MIRAHAIR. You can see the difference it made in my life. It can
make the same difference in yours!"
MIRAHAIR
[Photo of few strands of hair.]
[The following order form in is a box dash outline.]
MIRAHAIR Box 733 Tampa, FL
Dear Stan Dornburg,
YES! I want a full head of hair and all the things that come with it! RUSH my giant 4 oz. bottle of MIRAHAIR
and my FREE copy of Hair's To Your Health. Enclosed is my check or money order for $29.95, plus $3 postage
& handling.
Name______________________________________
Address______________________________________
City/State/Zip_________________________________

--

SECTION I: ABOUT HOLLYWOOD HIJINX
Preface to the Story
As a child, you spend most of your summers with your Aunt Hildegarde and Uncle Buddy. What memories! Uncle Buddy was a
Hollywood big-shot, Aunt Hildegarde his loving (and very rich) wife. They had no children of their own, but you and your cousins
loved their house, their parties, the Hollywood memorabilia, and them. Sure, Buddy and Hildy were a bit eccentric -- but that added
to their charm.
Aunt Hildegarde kept the house when Uncle Buddy passed away. And now that she's suddenly died, you remember her unusual
will. You will inherit the entire estate -- probably worth millions -- if you can spend just one night in the house and on the grounds,
and find a treasure or two. But if you can't, then you inherit nothing.
And so Hollywood Hijinx begins with you being dropped off in front of a dark house, not too far from Hollywood...

--

Some Recognized Verbs
This is only a partial list of the verbs that Hollywood Hijinx understands. There are many more. Some of the verbs listed can be
found in all Infocom stories; others are included especially for Hollywood Hijinx. Remember you can use a variety of prepositions
with some verbs. (For example, LOOK can become LOOK INSIDE, LOOK BEHIND, LOOK UNDER, LOOK THROUGH, LOOK AT,
and so on.)
BURN ENTER OFFER SHAKE
CLIMB EXAMINE OPEN SHOW
COUNT FILL POUR TAKE
CUT IGNITE PULL THROW
DIG KNOCK PUSH TIE
DRINK LIGHT PUT TOUCH
DROP LISTEN RAISE TURN
EAT LOOK READ UNLOCK
Sample Transcript and Map
This transcript is not from Hollywood Hijinx, but it does show many of the typical commands you might use in the story. It
contains some simple puzzles and their solutions, and it will give you a good idea of how Infocom's interactive fiction works. The
player's commands appear in capital letters after each prompt (>). The map represents the terrain in the sample transcript as you
might have drawn it.
You open your eyes after a long nap. Your neck is stiff and your knees are scrunched up against the seat in front of you. Then, like
a bad dream, you remember the awful movie you were watching: "Slash 'n' Chop Sock Hop." Sleep was a blissful escape, and a
sensible alternative to leaving the air-conditioned theater and returning to the 98-degree, 98-percent humidity outside. But now the
movie is over, everyone has gone home, and you're locked up, alone, in the theater.
Smoking Section, in the seats
You're sitting in a worn red-velvet seat. The main aisle is to the east. The screen in front of you is blank. On the seat next to you is a
shoebox. Garbage is strewn all over the floor.
> GO EAST
You'll have to stand up first.
> STAND UP
As you stand, you step on spilled popcorn, candy, and soda.
Your sneakers stick to the floor like a fly in molasses.
> GO EAST
You can't move. Your sneakers are stuck to the floor.
> LOOK IN THE SHOEBOX
Inside the shoebox is a pair of roller skates.
> TAKE OFF THE SNEAKERS
(sitting on the seat first)
Okay, you are no longer wearing the sneakers.
> PUT ON THE ROLLER SKATES
(taking the roller skates first)
The roller skates have no laces, so you can't use them.
> INVENTORY
You are carrying a ticket stub and a box of string licorice.
> LACE THE SKATES WITH THE LICORICE
You successfully put on the roller skates using the string
licorice as shoelaces.
> STAND UP AND THEN GO EAST
Okay, you are now standing.
You skate between the seats and arrive at...
Aisle
An arched doorway to the lobby lies south. Seats are off to
the east and west.
> SKATE SOUTH
You skate up the aisle and arrive at...
Lobby
The front door to the street is to the south. A staircase leads
up to the balcony, and an arched doorway to the downstairs
auditorium lies north. In the corner is a counter where the
patrons can buy popcorn, candy, and soda. An usher's
uniform is draped over the counter.
> OPEN THE FRONT DOOR
The front door is locked.
> UNLOCK IT
You don't have the key.
> KNOCK ON IT
There's no answer
> SEARCH THE UNIFORM
In the uniform you find a flashlight, a white note, and a
yellow note.
> TAKE ALL FROM UNIFORM
flashlight: Taken.
white note: Taken
yellow note: Taken
> READ THE WHITE NOTE
"Don't forget to lock all the doors. Signed, the Manager."
> READ THE YELLOW NOTE
"Grampa likes 'High Noon.' Signed, the Projectionist."
> LOOK BEHIND THE COUNTER
All you see is popcorn, candy, and soda.
> GO UPSTAIRS
You can't go upstairs wearing the roller skates.
> TAKE OFF THE ROLLER SKATES
Okay, you are no longer wearing the roller skates.
> GO UP
You climb up. The air gets thin.
Balcony
It's too dark to see anything!
> TURN ON THE FLASHLIGHT
Okay, the flashlight is now on.
From way up here, the screen looks no bigger than a postage
stamp. A rope suspended from the ceiling is tied to a railing
around the balcony. Across the abyss of the auditorium you
see a catwalk. A staircase leads down to the lobby, and a
door on the east wall is closed. Next to the door is a frowning
grandfather clock.
> OPEN THE DOOR
The door is locked.
> LOOK AT THE GRANDFATHER CLOCK
The grandfather clock has only one hand, which is pointing
to the right of 10 and to the left of 11. The face on the clock is
frowning.
> READ THE NOTE
Which note do you mean, the white note or the yellow note?
> YELLOW
"Grampa likes 'High Noon.' Signed, the Projectionist."
> TURN THE HAND RIGHT TO 12
As you turn the hand on the clock to 12, the face on the
clock begins to smile. Just as you get to 12, the clock bongs
noisily, Grampa laughs, and the door opens.
> EAST
Projection Booth
This is a very small room. A blue projector points out a
window down towards the screen below. Next to the
projector are 4 reels of film.
> LOOK AT THE REELS
Three of the reels --the red, white, and blue reels --are marked
"Slash 'n' Chop Sock Hop." One reel--the orange one--is
marked "Don't let the audience see this!"
> TAKE THE ORANGE REEK
[Sorry, but this story doesn't know the word "reek".]
> OOPS REEL
Taken.
> PUT THE ORANGE REEL IN THE FILM PROJECTOR
Okay, the orange reel is now in the projector.
> TURN ON THE PROJECTOR
The projector is now on, and the film begins to roll.
> LOOK AT THE SCREEN
The film was shot in the lobby of this theater! A model
dressed as an usher says to the camera, "Try our popcorn:
it's really yummy!" Then the model reaches into the mounds
of popcorn, takes a handful, and eats it, smiling. Suddenly,
there's a crunch, and the model stops smiling. She pulls a key
out of her mouth, says "Oh, gross me out!" and throws the
key back into the mounds of popcorn. Several people offcamera
snicker at the model, someone yells "Cut!" and the
film ends.
> W.D
Balcony
Lobby
You see a pair of roller skates here.
> LOOK
Lobby
The front door to the theater is to the south. A staircase
leads up to the balcony, and an arched doorway to the
downstairs auditorium lies north. In a corner is a counter
where patrons can buy popcorn, candy, and soda. An
usher's uniform is draped over the counter. You see a pair of
roller skates here.
> SEARCH THE POPCORN
In the mounds of popcorn you find a key, which you take.
> UNLOCK THE FRONT DOOR WITH THE KEY
The key doesn't fit the front door.
> EXAMINE THE KEY
You see nothing interesting about the key.
> U.L
Balcony
From way up here, the screen looks no bigger than a postage
stamp. A rope suspended from the ceiling is tied to a railing
around the balcony. Across the abyss of the auditorium you
see a catwalk. A staircase leads down to the lobby, and a
door on the east wall is closed. Next to the door is a frowning
grandfather clock.
> TAKE THE ROPE
You grab onto the rope, though it is still tied to the railing.
> UNTIE THE ROPE
Okay, the rope is now untied.
> JUMP OFF THE BALCONY
Johnny Weissmuller would be proud. Holding onto the rope,
you swing in a magnificent arc across the cavernous room.
Just when you think you'll hit the seats below, you start to
swing back up. With cat-like grace, you land feet-first onto a
catwalk. With monumental stupidity, you then let go of the
rope, which swings away out of reach.
Catwalk
This is a small, rickety platform. The downstairs auditorium is
far below you. A ladder leads up.
> UP
Catwalk
This is a small, rickety platform. The downstairs auditorium is
far below you. A ladder leads down, and another leads up.
> G
Catwalk
This is a small, rickety platform. The downstairs auditorium is
far below you. A ladder leads down, and another leads up.
> G
Catwalk
This is a small, rickety platform. The downstairs auditorium is
far below you. A ladder leads down. Inexplicably, a door is
set into the wall here, hundreds of feet above the floor.
> OPEN THE DOOR
The door is locked.
> UNLOCK THE DOOR WITH THE KEY
As you open the door, you are hit with the heat and the
humidity. You get dizzy. You step back, teeter for a moment,
grasp for a railing that isn't there...and wake up. Your neck is
stiff and your knees are scrunched up against the seat in
front of you. Then, like a bad dream, you remember the awful
movie you were watching "Meltdown on Elm Street."

--

You can find HIDDEN TREASURE … in your own home!
Wouldn't you like to have your money worries solved forever? To treat yourself and your family to luxury sports
car, fashionable wardrobe s, and brand new household appliances? Best of all, to get this WITHOUT WORKING A
SINGLE DAY? Now you can, with the amazing LUCKY PALM TREE SWIZZLE STICK!
[Photo of the serious middle aged man, pointing a finger at the camera, i.e. us. He is smiling, of course. The photo is
gilded in yellow color.]
"Do I look like the kind of person who believes in lucky charms? YOU will become a believer, too, when you get
your LUCKY PALM TREE SWIZZLE STICK."
I'm not the sort of person who believes in lucky charms. But a year ago I really needed a miracle. I lost my job, the
finance company repossessed my car, and my wife had triplets – all in one week. Night after night, I sat at the kitchen
table, trying to straighten out our finances.
One evening I worked so long and hard that I fell asleep right there at the table. That night someone must have
heard my desperate prayers. For the next morning, there was PALM TREE SWIZZLE STICK on the table in front of me. I
didn't know where it had come from or what it meant. I absent-mindedly used to stir my orange juice.
Suddenly, I heard a thud from the living room. I went in to find that a panel in the hung ceiling had fallen down. All I
could think was that this meant even more expenses to me. Then I saw something glittering in the empty space. A
beautiful diamond necklace was dangling from the old original ceiling! When I took it to the jewelers, I found that it was
worth $20,000!
The next day, I stirred my lemonade with PALM TREE SWIZZLE STICK. Shortly thereafter, I was working in my
vegetable garden when my spade struck something hard. Within moments, I was opening the lid of a treasure chest
containing 100 gold pieces! I sold these for $40,000 and bought my wife a new mink coat. When she went to hang the
coat in the closet, the hanging bar gave way. But this was no tragedy – concealed in the hollow center of the bar was a
fortune in precious jewels!
Where did these treasures come from? You might think anyone with a valuable diamond necklace would place is
safely in the bank. But in the past, no one kept money or valuables in the bank. They hid them in the house! Even today
there are plenty of people who think a mattress is more secure than a safe deposit box.
When its owner passes away, a treasure often stays just where it was put, in a nook or cranny of a house of the
secret compartment of a piece of furniture that may change hands many times! Short of tearing apart your house and
furniture, it's almost impossible to find them… unless you have a LUCKY PALM TREE SWIZZLE STICK.
Now that I'm financially secure for life, I'd like to share my good luck. I have arranged to make A LUCKY PALM
TREE SWIZZLE STICK available to anyone who wants their money worries to disappear forever! Simply follow the
instructions I send you, stirring your drink exactly the way I say, then sit back and wait for money, jewels, and other
treasures to float into your hands.
A LUCKY PALM TREE SWIZZLE STICK costs just $12.95. Isn't that a small price to pay for the fortune you'll
receive in return? Order today – and good luck to you!
[On the right side of the ad is a picture of this palm tree swizzle stick in actual size. It looks like an ordinary green palm.
Next to it in a yellow circle it says: "Shown Actual Size" ]
[The next order form is printed in a box dash outline.]
Exclusive Order Form
Lucky Palm, 7327 Sunset Blvd., West Hollywood, CA
YES!I want to find the valuable treasures hidden in MY house! Send me my LUCKY PALM TREE SWIZZLE STICK
today! Please send me:
- One Lucky Palm Tree Swizzle Stick for $12.95
- Two Lucky Palm Tree Swizzle Sticks for $21.95 (I save $3.95!)
- SPECIAL GIFT PACK: Four Lucky Palm Tree Swizzle Sticks for only $42.95 (I save almost $10.00!)
I enclose $3.00 postage and handling per swizzle stick.
Total amount enclosed $_____________________
Name____________________________________
Address___________________________________
City/State/Zip_______________________________
Money back guarantee if you are not absolutely delighted!

--

Hey, Kiddo!
This might open a few doors for ya!
Be brave as Sheriff Roy in “Fastest Blender in the West,”
The day the rustlin' outlaws put their Chainsaws to the test.
Old sheriff Roy used whip, then chop, then liquify/puree,
But his blender was no match for the Chainsaw's mean foray
As pieces of Roy scattered, we knew that we had trouble.
We hadn't switched the sheriff with his plastic life-size double!
Be bold as Captain Bob in “Cannibal Buffet of the East,”
Who agreed to come to dinner, not knowing he was the feast.
Fingertip hors d'oeuvre were greasy, sauteed eyeballs weren't so hot,
But their mouths began to water when they put Bob in the pot.
Don't feel bad for Captain Bob, whose agent was a real smarty.
He signed Bob for a sequel called “Cannibal Meatloaf Party.”
Be clever like the tailor in “Vampire Penguins of the North.”
A cummerbund for such penguin was the plan he had set forth.
The first penguins that he met were of Transylvanian extraction,
And their fondness for his neck was a natural reaction.
Now the tailor's up in Heaven, sewing angel gowns of white,
While the penguins search the frozen turf for other necks to bite.
We sure enjoyed having you with us all those summers. You always were
my favorite!
Love ya, Kiddo!
Uncle Buddy

--

Hildegarde Montague Burbank
Hildebud
Malibu, California 90265
Well, Pumpkin, I've finally gone to join Buddy in Paradise. I sure had a lot of
fun in life, but nothing lasts forever, eh? I will miss Hildebud, our home for so
many years. We all had plenty of wonderful times there, didn't we? Well, now
it's all going to be yours. I know you love the old place as much as I do. You'll
take good care of it.
Your Uncle Buddy and I often talked about this and we agreed that everything
should go to you. Of all our nieces and nephews, you were our favourite. Buddy
gave me the enclosed photo which he wanted passed on to you with this letter.
Now, dear, we are fond of you, but Buddy and I worked hard to build our
business and keep up our estate. We don't intent to just throw it all away. So
although we both think you are clever enough to manage everything wisely, we
need to make sure. That's why we've planned a little test for you.
Hidden around the house and grounds at Hildebud are ten "treasures" from your
Uncle Buddy's films. All you need to do is find the treasures in one night, and
everything will be yours. Now that doesn't sound too hard, does it?
If you can't find the treasures, too bad, sweetie! We'll give our other nieces and
nephews a crack at it. The clever shall inherit the bundle. So that everyone
knows what's up, a letter is being sent to each one of you.
My lawyer will pick you up at 8:00 on the evening of the funeral and drive you
to Hildebud. Good luck, Pumpkin. Make your Aunt Hildegarde proud.
Being of sound mind and body, I do hereby sign this testament in the presence of
two witnesses.
[signature of Hildegarde Montague Burbank] 6/18/86
[signature of Budz Palace] 6/18/86
[signature of Dorothy LaFlank] 6/18/86
