                       The next step downward to danger.

                                    Zork II:
                             The Wizard of Frobozz

                                       by
                                   Marc Blank
                                       and
                                  Dave Lebling


                            Interactive Fiction Plus

                                     Fantasy

                                 Advanced Level




                         Instruction Manual & "Feelies"




[The letters of "ZORK II" are huge and take up almost half a page, in its middle. They are made of stone bricks, so they give a look of an old castle wall. In front of the letter "O", however is the partially opened heavy wooden door, with an iron lock, which is also open. Behind the door we see the part of the letter "O" and a light that comes from within the center of the letter. It seems like an invitation to venture in to experience adventure and all.]


---------

Accidentally zapped into this and every ZORK II package by an addled wizard: your ZORK II disk, official tourist's guide to the Great Underground Empire and two travel brochures on the hottest resorts this side of ground level.

[The program disk and brochures are shown lying on top of some broken timbers. The game package is also there, opened to "G.U.E. on Nine Zorkmids a Day". However, the inner cover of the package shows a gray and black drawing of a stone wall, whereas the later package has the "Take Their Words For It!" on the inner cover.]


The Wizard appears, floating nonchalantly in the air beside you. He grins sideways at you.

The Wizard incants "Fantasize," but nothing happens. He shakes the wand. Nothing happens. With a slightly embarrassed glance in your direction, he vanishes.


EXPECT THE UNEXPECTED WHEN YOU TAKE ON ZORK II: THE WIZARD OF FROBOZZ.
As you explore the subterranean realm of Zork, you'll continually be confronted with new surprises. Chief among these is the Wizard himself, who'll constantly endeavor to confound you with his capricious powers. But more than that, you'll face a challenge the likes of which you've never experienced before.

GET INSIDE A STORY. GET ONE FROM INFOCOM!
It's like waking up inside a story! Load Infocom's interactive fiction into your computer and discover yourself at the center of a world jam-packed with surprising twists, unique characters and original, logical, often hilarious puzzles.

For the first time, you're more than a passive reader. You can talk to the story, typing in full English sentences. And the story talks right back, communicating entirely in vividly descriptive prose. What's more, you can actually shape the story's course of events through your choice of actions. And you have hundreds of alternatives at every step. In fact, there's so much you can see and do, your adventure can last for weeks and even months.

To find the Infocom interactive story that's right for you, just choose any one marked with the level of difficulty listed below that best matches your current level of interactive skill. 

Junior: Best introduction to interactive fiction. Written for everyone from age 9 up.

Standard: Good introductory level for adults. This is Infocom's most popular level of interactive fiction.

Advanced: A greater level of challenge. Recommended for those who've already experienced Infocom's interactive fiction.

Expert: For real diehards seeking the ultimate challenge in interactive fiction.

Then find out what it's like to get inside a story. Get one from Infocom. Because with Infocom's interactive fiction, there's room for you on every disk.


INFOCOM
55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138
 
For your: Apple II, Macintosh, Atari, Commodore 64, DECmate, DEC Rainbow, DEC RT-11, HP 150 & 110, IBM PC* & PCjr, KAYPRO II, MS-DOS 2.0*, Osborne, TI Professional, TI 99/4A, Tandy 2000, TRS-80 Color Computer, TRS-80 Models I & III.

* Use the IBM PC version for your Compaq and the MS-DOS 2.0 version for your Wang, Mindset, Data General System 10, GRiD and many others.

Manufactured and Printed in USA
(C) 1984 Infocom, Inc.
Warranty information enclosed.
ZORK is a registered trademark of Infocom, Inc.



---------

[The back cover of "G.U.E. on Nine Zorkmids a Day" provides our introduction to Zork II:]

Club Zork:
Where the G.U.E.'s Elite Meet

[The Club Zork logo is drawn inside a circle with a martini glass in the foreground.]


You may never see the light of day again!

At least not if the Wizard of Frobozz has anything to say about it. This insidious gent intends to be your undoing as you explore a huge and long-hidden region of the Great Underground Empire. He was exiled here in days gone by, and though his powers have diminished and he has acquired a bat or two in the belfry over the years, he is still capable of putting his sorcery to evil use against a mere human intruder such as yourself.

Your only hope is to outsmart the ancient necromancer at his trickery, solve a barrage of diabolical puzzles and, ultimately, bring the Wizard's powers under your control. Unless you succeed in this test of brains and bravery, you may be doomed to an eternity of wandering the engless catacombs of the vast subterranean realm.

Good luck, hearty soul, as you venture forth -- and downwards. We wish we could shout stronger words of encouragement after you as you go, but there's nothing except darkness at the end of the tunnel as far as we can see. That must be the Wizard down there, waiting for you.

The Table of Contents for the manuals is on page 1. Take a look at it to determine what you should read before you start the story.




---------

TAKE THEIR WORDS FOR IT!

"I’m probably not going to watch TV for the next year now that I have ZORK II!"
Jennie, 21, Student
Logan, Utah

"Masterpieces of logic"
PLAYBOY magazine

"ZORK is the only series of programs which all of the family and most of my friends are interested in."
Bob, 37, Railroad Clerk
Blaine, Minnesota

"Very fascinating.... Makes you THINK."
Peggy, 50, Wife and Mother
Davisburg, Mississippi

"Once again the master adventurers of Infocom have thrust us into the titillating, terrifying, and sometimes intimidating world of ZORK.... ZORK II is an adventure fit for master adventurers."
SOFTLINE magazine

"All-text is great. My imagination is greater than any graphics."
Dean, 13
Seattle
 
"ZORK is going to drive me to my knees"
Astronaut Sally Ride

"Now my wife hates your games (ha, ha)."
John, 48, Artist
Goldthwaite, Texas



---------

"G.U.E. on Nine Zorkmids a Day: A Traveller's Guide to the Great Underground Empire"
by Lester Foozilbarmumboz

Frobozz Magic Book Company. Copied right in the year 873.  All rights reserved.

[The entire page is orange with the same texture as the skin of an orange. Below the title are some typical items that tourists buy while on vacation.]


Postcard 1:
North Anthar Granola Mines
- Clusters of - * FUN * for the Whole Family
["Granola Mines" is drawn as if the words are made of granola.]

Postcard 2:
Come Again to ARAGAIN.
Capital of the Frigid River
[Icicles hang down from the top of the postcard, and the background behind the words shows a light snow is falling.]

Postcard 3:
I Survived The Jungles of Minzia
Bloodworm mecca of the G.U.E.
[A large worm is on the postcard. The postcard is also cut so that it has five sides and no right angles on any of the corners.]

Postcard 4:
I Visited Greater Borphee And its Fixum Rixa Poo Nastic!!
[The top edge of this postcard is cut in a decorative arch.]

Keychain:
King Zilbo Hotel
Midtown Gurth
"Where Every Guest is Treated Like a FELTNID"

Bumper sticker:
I (heart symbol) MITHICUS

Luggage tag:
Flying Carpet Airlines
forward to: Tunnels of Love, Frigid River Valley
from: Lenko Cavem, 938120 Plateau Place, North-South City, G.U.E.
TWELTH CLASS



Festeron Town Library bookplate

03/35/874   07/07/876   03/02/881
05/11/874   09/02/876   06/14/883
09/01/874   02/13/877   04/22/917
01/29/875   03/09/878   02/21/948
04/34/875   07/35/878
06/10/875   01/03/879
04/21/876   08/06/879

Please take care of me... library books belong to everyone.

[The bookplate contains a drawing at the top, above the area where the check-out dates are stamped. The drawing of the Festeron library is done in the same style and coloring as the rest of the pictures in in Zork 1's "The Great Underground Empire: A History". The library is two stories high and resembles a castle: the entrance is straddled by two round towers with cone-shaped roofs that are slightly taller than the main roof, and between them and above the entrance is another tower which has a traditional flat roof. On the second floor are two skyways at the left and right ends of the building, but we do not see which buildings these lead to.]



[Each major feature of the five regions is accompanied by a related symbol: a gavel for Local Government, a carpet for Local Transportation, a sun behind a cloud for Weather, a brick building for Lodging, a goblet for Dining, a large arrow for Things To See, and a pair of tickets for Seasonal Events. The regional facts also have a small map that shows the area around the region's capital. The capital is marked with a star. The roadways are a twisting and convoluted mass of overpasses, underpasses and bridges.]



ANTHARIA

Shown at Flathead Stadium is a citizen trying to get a leg up on the competition during an exciting shark wrestling match.

[Flathead Stadium features a large pool. The spectators watch from behind a stout metal railing. Inside the pool, we see a person swimming under water, and three sharks leaping out of the water. One of the sharks has a human leg in its mouth.]


LOCAL GOVERNMENT: Antharia is ruled by a council of four "Elders" -- one from the Shipbuilding Guild, one from the Granola Miners Guild, one from the Marble Cutters Guild, and one from a popular waterfront pub called "Emu's."

TRANSPORTATION: Getting to and from Antharia is limited to travel by ship. (An Enchanter familiar with teleportation spells can be hired, but are expensive and sometimes unreliable.) Normal third-class fare for this two-day journey can cost as much as 17 zorkmids during the month before the Marble Pageant. 

WEATHER: Except for an occasional hurricane in late summer, Antharian weather is picture-perfect. Leave your umbrella home, but don't forget to pack your swim suit and scuba gear!

LODGING: The world-famous Zilton Hotel in downtown Anthar features plush accommodations and easy access to most of the island's sights. Prices range from 6 to 24 zorkmids per night. More economical lodgings can be found at the bucolic Pterodactyl Inn. Every room features a stunning view of the cliffs overlooking the lovely north shore of the island, and rates range from 2 to 8 zorkmids per night.

DINING: An absolute must is The Rusty Knife in West Anthar. Expect to wait at least an hour; the house specialty is flame-broiled sea serpent filet for a mere Zm 1.25. Other fine seafood restaurants include the Finhouse (Zm0.50 to Zm1.50) and Zilbar's (Zm0.35 to Zm1.50).

THINGS TO SEE: The shipbuilding factories of South Anthar are an amazing sight; plan to spend at least half a day. Tours for 1 zorkmid are available every hour from dawn until dusk. The burgeoning marble industry offers many exciting sights: the gaping mines in the Peltoid Valley, the cutting and polishing guilds at work, the 20-bloit conveyor belt 
at the port of Marba. Despite the reduced output since the Granola Riots, the granola mines in the north make an interesting visit if you can stand the smell. No trip to the island would be complete without a cruise on the island's only glass-bottom boat, the Bella Quease. The cruise leaves an hour before noon, and costs Zm2.25 (children under 12, Zm1.50).

SEASONAL EVENTS: The Marble Pageant, held annually in mid-spring is highly recommended. However, during the month of the Pageant, hotel space becomes scarce, and many prices are inflated. Shark-wrestling, held every weekend during the summer at Anthar's Flathead Stadium, is an exciting experience if you can stomach the gore. Admission is Zm0.75.

FACTS:
Land Area: 959 square bloits
Capital:   Anthar
Nickname:  The Island Province
Flower:    The Spenseweed
Motto:     "Hieya wizka" ("Hello sailor")



GREATER BORPHEE

With wave heights averaging 38ft., surfing is always great.

[The picture is of a beach at sunset. Everything has a reddish tint to it: the water, the clouds, the sand and the rocks. A large sea serpent with a long, straight horn growing out of its nose swims away towards some very craggy mountains in the distance. The waves crash up against the rocks that are piled up on the right side of the beach. A sign made from broken wooden planks reads "Flathead Beach. 'Beach Blanket Fannuci' filmed here in 871 G.U.E.". In addition to the palm trees just visible at the edges of the picture, the beach contains an opened treasure chest, a few bones, and the skull of a horned cyclops.]


LOCAL GOVERNMENT: Greater Borphee is administered by a staff of part-time volunteer managers, whose decisions are ratified at least three times per year, but not more than every other week, by a series of local forums. 

TRANSPORTATION: Borphee is probably the single most accessible vacation spot in the Empire. From anywhere in the Borphee River valley, travel by ferry is easy and inexpensive. If you wish to travel by sea, Borphee has an excellent, busy harbor. By land, the Coast Road connects Borphee with the ancient cities to the north as well as the populous southlands. 

WEATHER: Thanks to the nearby ocean, Borphee has a very moderate climate. The rainy season lasts most of the winter, and summers tend to be humid.

LODGING: Motel Spell is a highly commercialized tourist trap with overdone touches such as the issuing of self-casting REZROV spells instead of keys. Rooms start at 5 zorkmids. Be forewarned, patrons who miss the check-out time will have their families turned into newts and their luggage turned into bat guano. The Borphee Inn, run by the Frobozz Magic Hotel Company, is comfortable and surprisingly affordable. While penthouse suites can run upwards of 33 zorkmids per day, basement rooms are available for as little as 3 zorkmids (but make your reservations well in advance). 

DINING: The Potion Place, at the Borphee Inn, features a delightful menu of enchanted dishes. Waiters are a thing of the past at the Palace, as your mind is probed to discover the perfect meal for your taste, which then poofs into existence right at your table. A nightly floor show features dancing nymphs; expect to spend at least Zm4. Also highly recommended is the Smokestack, where even the heartiest of meals costs under a zorkmid. 

THINGS TO SEE: Borphee is the Kingdom's fastest-growing industrial city, with the magic scroll and potion factories leading the way. Both Spellbound and United Thaumaturgy offer free tours of their facilities. (Spellbound's deluxe tour costs Zm3, but it includes casting a time travel spell that gives you three extra hours in your schedule.) G.U.E. Tech, the newest of the Moss-League Colleges, produces the young Enchanters of tomorrow.

Many graduates have gone on to start their own magic companies, and have become an identifiable subculture known as "Yuppies," or "Young Underground Professionals."

Just a short trip south of the city are some of the most beautiful stretches of beach anywhere on the Flathead Ocean, including the very dunes where "Beach Blanket Fanucci" was filmed. Borphee nightlife is renowned throughout the Empire; Studio Frob on the warf features an excellent Phlog and Tonic for Zm0.25. Warning: the Borphee Observation Tower is a complete waste of money. Admittance is Zm7, and the air in downtown Borphee never provides visibility of more than a fraction of a bloit.

SEASONAL EVENTS: Borphee is the site of the annual Double Fanucci Championships. During the first week in autumn, the entire province fills up with every Double Fanucci fanatic in the kingdom. Tickets to each game in the finals cost 3 zorkmids, but usually sell out within hours. Scalpers command as much as 20 zorkmids for a good seat. In late spring, G.U.E. Tech holds their annual Spelling Bee, which is free and open to the public. The highlight of last year's competition was Magic O'Leary's stunning mastery of clairvoyance spells which allowed him to win the Bee before the first word was even issued.

Every winter, the hills of Borphee come alive with the sound(s) of the most dreadful singers in the Kingdom. This event, aptly named The From Bad to Worst Songfest, allows those truly terrible singers to gain recognition while vying for the much-coveted prize of a pair of 18k gold earplugs. Because most hillside residents schedule out-of-town court appearances or surgery during this two-week period, you may be able to rent an apartment or house for as little as Zm2 or Zm3.5, respectively.

On the official first day of summer, thousands gather at the Borphee Harbor for the G.U.E. Festival of Small Ships. Throughout the day, hundreds of these floating antiques drop their mini-anchors in the water and send off rockets, flairs and fireworks to herald their safe arrival. Only those spectators 4 feet 5 inches and under will be allowed to board the ships. Admission is free so come early to beat the crowds.

FACTS:
Population: 1,107,810
Land Area:  754 square bloits
Capital:    Borphee
Nickname:   The Industrial Province
Flower:     The Compass Rose
Motto:      "Borphee -- fixum rixa poo nastik" ("Borphee -- better than you think")


Double Fanucci Stadium -- where tickets for the annual Double Fanucci championships often go as high as 20 zorkmids each.

[The Double Fanucci Stadium encircles the playfield, providing seating for approximately 5,000 beings. Some of them hold up placcards that spell out "WIN!", "GO!" and "YEA!". The playfield looks remarkably like a tennis court, but the corners disappear underneath the seats. A rectangular table stands in the middle of the court. A Fanucci player sits at each end. A referee watches from the sidelines.]



THE FRIGID RIVER VALLEY

Flathead Mountains -- inaccessible backwater of the Great Underground Empire

[A snow-covered pine tree and a large moose stand in the foreground on a snow-covered hill. However, the snow fades away on the hills just behind this one. A small restaurant can be seen underneath a gigantic sign that reads "Flathead Mountains Bar & Grill".]


LOCAL GOVERNMENT: None to speak of. 

TRANSPORTATION: Unless you travel via flying carpet, you'll find this region to be virtually cut off from the rest of the Empire. You can hack your way east through the coastal forests with a machete, or try to cross the Flathead Mountains from the east, or you can try to travel up the Frigid River, bucking the most severe currents and dangerous rapids known to man. We suggest air travel. 

WEATHER: Very unpredictable, but you'll probably be spending most of your time underground. 

LODGING: The Tunnels of Love are a favorite of the Kingdom's honeymooners, located a stone's throw from Aragain Falls. The Tunnels are well-known for their vast honeycomb of passageways, and couples have been known to raise entire families just trying to find their rooms. Rates range from Zm2 for a room to Zm10 for a Honeymoon Suite. The Cliffhouse, near White Cliffs Beach, is inexpensive (all rooms are Zm2) and convenient to the big tourist spots. 

DINING: The Roundup, just off the Round Room, specializes in dragon dishes. Entrees range from Zm0.30 to Zm0.80. The Aqueduct offers reasonably good cuisine and a breathtaking view of one of the Empire's primary water channels. Slightly overpriced at Zm1.20 to Zm2.20. 

THINGS TO SEE: Flood Control Dam Number Three is a staggering engineering feat that must be seen to be believed. Nearby is Aragain Falls, the so-called Honeymoon Capital of the Great Underground Empire. Slightly farther away is the Royal Museum, although the three-week security clearance procedure discourages many visitors. If mountain climbing turns you on, the Flathead Mountains offer one of the best challenges anywhere. 

SEASONAL EVENTS: On the first day of summer, crowds line the banks of the Frigid River for a spectacular sight: the annual opening of the floodgates of FCD Number Three, which lower the water level of the reservoir behind. Frequently, the king himself will be on hand to open the floodgates personally.

FACTS:
Population: 98,330
Land Area:  15,232 square bloits
Capital:    Aragain
Nickname:   The Deepest Province
Flower:     The Budding Fern
Motto:      "Blippi burz fliggin" ("Dig we must")



GURTH AND MITHICUS

FACTS:
Population: 2,883,190
Land Area:  21,545 square bloits
Capital:    Gurth City
Nickname:   The Vacation Province
Flower:     The Morgia
Motto:      "Utribiz oomum flaxil zobs" ("Don't eat moldy bread")

LOCAL GOVERNMENT: An informal board of 13 thousand citizens meets three times each day to settle disputes and ratify the provincial budget. 

TRANSPORTATION: Take the Coast Road south from Borphee, or sail to the port of Miznia. Travel from any of the westlands should cost no more than 5 zorkmids. 

WEATHER: Absolutely wonderful for most of the year, but it can sometimes get unbearably hot during the peak summer months; bring mosquito netting. 

LODGING: In Gurth, try the King Zilbo Hotel, and elegant old building with rooms for as little as Zm2.50. Your best bet in Mithicus is the new No-Frill Inn. Rooms are only Zm0.75 per night, but almost everything is extra. (For example, beds are an additional Zm0.50 per night, pillows Zm0.20.) 

DINING: The Broken Lantern in the village of Grubbo-By-The-Sea serves a fine parrot stew, as well as other local delicacies in an intimate setting. The desserts are world-famous; the morgia root pie is a must. Most meals will be around Zm1.50; desserts are extra. 

THINGS TO SEE: The southlands are known for their many fine artisans. You can make arrangements at the various guildhalls to see carpenters, woodcarvers, rock cutters, potmakers, and basket weavers at work. The region is also prime vacationaland, with many activities to choose from: sky diving, bullfighting, surfing, skin diving and glurking. Rates vary seasonally, but a day's worth of any of these activities will cost you no more than 2 or 3 zorkmids. Consider exploring the jungles of Miznia, but stay away from the well-marked bloodworm spawning grounds unless you have a trained guide. Trained guides usually start at Zm8 per day.

SEASONAL EVENTS: The gigantic Gurth City Crafts Fair is held every weekend during the spring. The finest products of over 80 different guilds are displayed and sold. In early autumn, the annual Harvest Festival gets underway for a colorful two-week celebration featuring local foods, drinks, song and dance.


Over 80 different guilds and 120 different local delicacies are
represented at the Gurth City Crafts Fair.

[A balloon vendor in costume walks down the aisle between the vendors' tables. The table nearest to us contains some small loaves of bread, cupcakes with a pink frosting, and a few other foods that seem to consist of worms and grasses. On the other tables are various craft items for sale. Among them a child's pull-toy in the shape of a dragon with a head at each end and wheels on it, and some pitchers, one of which is in the shape of a sunflower and another in the shape of a bird. The most interesting item is the cuckoo clock. It has a pair of arms and hands that emerge from its sides. The left hand is holding open the door above the clock, and it appears to be trying to coax the mechanical red cuckoo bird back inside.]



THE GRAY MOUNTAINS

The snow-making equipment at the Gray Mountains always provides optimal snowburrowing conditions.

[Picture of three people enjoying snowburrowing. They have dived head-first into the deep snow, and all we can see of them are their lower legs sticking nearly straight up. All three are wearing boots and insulated pants, appropriate for walking through the snow.]


LOCAL GOVERNMENT: Local matters are settled entirely by a tyrannical governor who is chosen once a month by a lottery.

TRANSPORTATION: Travel to this remote area has recently been made much simpler by the completion of the Great Underground Highway's eastern branch. Tolls will run as high as Zm3 depending on your point of departure.

WEATHER: Thanks to active hot springs, the temperature of the underground caverns in this region stays at a uniform ideal temperature. However, up on the surface, the temperature is nearly always below freezing, with frequent blizzards.

LODGING: The brochures for Grayslopes recommend a place called the Ski Pole, but avoid this fleabag at all costs, unless you like bedbugs, rusty water, and rude help. (Apparently, the owners of Grayslopes also own a piece of the Ski Pole.) Instead, stay at the intimate Come-On Inn, which cost only Zm1.30. The Come-On also offers discounts on all equipment rental.

DINING: The Glacier Room is a colorful dive which is a favorite hangout for the locals. In addition to generous helpingsof good food, the Glacier Room also provides cast rests for diners. From Zm0.60. Warning: ignore recommendations by natives to dine at the Rotgut. Although the locals love to eat there, recommending it to visitors is a practical joke the natives love to play. After all, they've been brought up on this sort of food, plus they know all the best bromide cures.

THINGS TO SEE: The hot springs are somewhat overrated as a tourist spot. As far as we're concerned, a trip to the Gray Mountains means one thing: snow sports. A lift ticket at Grayslopes costs Zm3 for a day. Skating on the slanted frozen surface of Lake Dinge is an exhilirating experience. Snow-burrowers rent around 6 zorkmids per week, but be sure to spend an extra Zm1.50 for a service contract. 

SEASONAL EVENTS: None. There are no seasons in the Gray Mountains.

FACTS:
Population: 18,370
Land Area:  13,441 square bloits
Capital:    Frostham
Nickname:   The Fire and Ice Province
Flower:     The Frobizzan Moss
Motto:      "Mekie zimbuz" ("Maybe tomorrow")



---------

BOZBARLAND

A FUTURISTIC FANTSAY AMUSEMENT PARK IN THE GREAT UNDERGROUND EMPIRE

ADMISSION 1 ZORKMID

OVER 200 DIFFERENT RIDES, GAMES AND EXHIBITS

OPEN ALL YEAR!
Second Great Underground Highway Western Branch Bozbarbo Village Great Underground Empire

[The cover depicts a rectangular opening into an underground cave, framed with natural stones. One ride is a Merry-Go-Round with five seats that have animal shapes, but the only two that are readily visible are a baby stegosaurus and a baby dragon. The other ride has three two-seat airplanes suspended from ropes. As it turns, centrifugal force causes the airplanes to move outward, and if the ride rotated fast enough, the airplanes would be even in height with the point where their ropes attach to the central pillar.]



Just a few of the great Bozbarland attractions:

Bozbarland is just a short trip away, at the western end of the Great Underground Highway. Admission is just one zorkmid, all year round! And be sure to take in Bozbarland's many neighboring sights, the highlight being ancient Egreth Castle, the home of old King Duncanthrax. Make sure your vacationland includes a stop at Bozbarland!


THE FLUME: This splash-filled log boat ride is the largest of its kind anywhere in the world. You'll never trust a water vehicle again!

[The log boat on this ride is shown just coming off the end of a ramp, making a nose dive into the water. Only one of the rider's hands can be seen as he disappears under the water.]


THE HAUNTED HOUSE: The only authentic haunted house you'll ever visit. We've imported ghosts, goblins, spooks, spirits and apparitions from all over the Kingdom. You'll never forget your walk through the Haunted House ... IF you get out alive!

[The Haunted House is a stonework building that has a Bavarian look. At the top of the arched entrance are stalactites, which makes the entrance look like a mouth with teeth. Coming out of the entrance is an angry-looking cloud-like ghost.]


THE ROLLER COASTER: Hold onto your glorbs! You'll travel faster than you've ever travelled before. Magic and engineering combine to create the most thrilling experience imaginable!

[This roller coaster is designed for thrill-seekers. The supporting structures are made from trees. Three cars, each with three empty seats, are shown rolling along different tracks. The top-most car has a parachute attached to the back of it, and it has just gone off the end of a ramp.]


THE BOZBARLAND CASINO: Name your favorite game of chance and we've got it. Roulette, double fannuci, burfle, blackjack and more! You'll have the time of your life and maybe walk out with a million zorkmids!

[Typical picture of a casino: two dice, a roulette wheel, a stack of red chips, a stack of green chips, and three playing cards. Like the rest of Bozbarland, these items appear to be hand-made instead of manufactured. For instance, the playing cards are thin slices of rock with the symbols carved into them.]


MIDWAY: Where else can you find almost a square bloit filled with games of chance and skill? And refreshment stands that sell cotton candy, dragon burgers and fried glurz?

[Take a chance on the stalagmite ring toss or throw balls to knock over the stuffed dolls!.]


Bozbarland

A futuristic fantasy amusement park with over 200 different rides, games and exhibits!

OPEN ALL YEAR!
Second Great Underground Highway Western Branch Bozbarbo Village Great Underground Empire



---------

GRAYSLOPES: THE GREAT UNDERGROUND EMPIRE'S WINTER WONDERLAND

[Picture of a cave with large white stalactites and stalagmites, which resembles a mouth with huge teeth. The largest of the stalactites and stalagmites are over 50 feet tall, and we can see some skiers skiing down them.]


Great Underground Highway, eastern branch Gray Mountains province

* Largest ski resort in the G.U.E.
* Featuring both downhill and cross-country skiing
* Eight ski lifts servicing 22 varied trails
* Trails classified into three levels of difficulty
* Plus tobogganing, ice skating and more!

For Ski Information Call: [Quendorian phone number, using rune-like symbols]



Grayslopes is THE ultimate ski experience. With 22 wildly different trails to choose from, you'll never get bored at Grayslopes. And, with eight ski lifts to choose from, you'll never have to wait for a lift! If you want to add even more variety to your vacation, Grayslopes also features more than 60 bloits of beautiful cross-country ski trails, four toboggan slopes, full-size and half-size furbish courts and three tremendous ice-skating rinks. Our top-of-the-line Frobozz Magic Snow Maker guarantees the finest powder for your skiing pleasure, even when the temperature soars above 57 degrees Q.

[The brochure includes pictures of a Frobozz Magic Super Snowgun making snow, four riders on a toboggan going over the top of a steep snow-covered cliff which looks like a face with closed eyes and a hooked nose, and a sign showing the way to various ski runs.]



The Frost Bite, our charming ski lodge, includes a superb restaurant, an inexpensive snack bar and an intimate fireside pub.

Our first aid medics are equipped with the most up-to-date bone-setting spells.

For your convenience, stay at the lovely Ski Pole Inn, just five minutes away from Grayslopes. This GGG-rated lodge offers the finest accommodations in the Gray Mountains province and provides discount coupons for all Grayslopes tickets.

Our unique Frotzed Snow (TM) offers the rare opportunity for evening skiing. Whizzing down the softly glowing trails is an experience you'll never forget.

The ski shop at the Frost Bite offers a full line of ski accessories at bargain prices, including the new Frobozz Magic Ski Wax. You'll also be able to select from hundreds of souvenirs to commemorate your visit to Grayslopes.

[The Frost Bite lodge favors a triangular motif:  the fireplace has a triangular opening, and the padded chairs have triangular back supports, though the seats themselves are round.  The Ski Pole Inn marks its walkway with ski poles, some of which are bent. The front of the building is similar to Swiss ski lodges.]



[Picture of the three mountains where the Grayslopes ski trails and ski lifts are located. The trail names are listed by their difficulty, but are not shown on the map.]

Easy Trails:
2.  Wimp Riders
4.  Sissy Slope
8.  Bedwetter's Special
16. The Tenfooter
21. Two Degrees Max

Difficult Trails:
1.  Glider's Delight
7.  Grayslopes Standard
11. Wraparound
15. Fred's Trail
19. Moneysworth
20. Steady Eddie's

Impossible Trails:
3.  The Chasm
5.  Coldernell
6.  Dead Man's Challenge
9.  Widowmaker
10. Zarg's Revenge
12. Double Split
13. Certain Death
14. Doctor's Delight
17. You-Go-First Ridge
18. Madman's Gulf
22. Jaws of Death

 
RATE SCHEDULE

Lift tickets:
One day, adult -- Zm3
One day, child (under 12) -- Zm2
Three day, adult -- Zm8
Three day, child -- Zm5
Lifetime (good only on impossible slopes) -- Zm35

Other fees:
Cross-country trail fee, full day -- Zm2
Cross-country trail fee, half day -- Zm1.50
Tobogganing, 5 rides -- Zm1.50
Furbish, full-court -- Zm3
Furbish, half-court -- Zm2.50

Rentals:
Downhill ski equipment, per day -- Zm1.50
Cross-country ski equipment, per day -- Zm1.25
Ice Skates, per day -- Zm0.50
Furbish clubs, per day -- Zm2.10
Lifetime (good only on impossible slopes) -- Zm35

Classes:
Downhill skiing (2 lessons) -- Zm4
Cross-country skiing -- Zm1.50
Furbish, defensing -- Zm2
Furbish, offensing -- Zm2

All rates subject to change as weather warrants



---------

Page 1


Instruction Manual for ZORK II: The Wizard of Frobozz
 
Welcome to ZORK! You are about to experience a classic interactive fantasy, set in a magical universe. The ZORK trilogy takes place in the ruins of an ancient empire lying far underground. You, a dauntless treasure-hunter, are venturing into this dangerous land in search of wealth and adventure. Because each part of the ZORK saga is a completely independent story, you can explore them in any order.

In ZORK II, you will explore a long-hidden region of the Empire, a region dominated by the Wizard of Frobozz. The Wizard was once a respected Enchanter, but when his powers began to fade he was exiled by Lord Dimwit Flathead the Excessive. Now, bordering on senility, the Wizard is still a force to be reckoned with. (Your goal, as you venture into the Wizard's realm, is to avoid his capricious tricks and learn to control his magical powers.)

If you're experienced with Infocom's interactive fiction, you may not feel like reading this entire manual. However, you should at least read about scoring (on page 2) and look at the appendix of recognized verbs (on page 8).


Table of Contents

An Overview -- Page 2
* What is interactive fiction? 
* Moving around 
* Turns and scoring

Tips for Novices -- 3
Nine useful pointers about interactive fiction

Communicating with ZORK -- 4
* Basic sentences 
* Complex sentences 
* Talking to characters in the story 
* Vocabulary limitations 

Starting and Stopping -- 5
* Starting ZORK ("Booting Up") 
* Saving and restoring 
* Quitting and restarting 

Appendix A: Quick Reference Guide -- 6
This briefly describes the most important things to know about interactive fiction. It is vital that you know all these things before you begin your adventure.

Appendix B:  Important Commands -- 7

Appendix C:  Some Recognized Verbs -- 8

Appendix D:  ZORK Complaints -- 9

Appendix E:  Sample Transcript and Map -- 10

Appendix F:  We're Never Satisfied -- 11

Appendix G:  If You Have Technical Problems -- 11

Appendix H:  Author Biographies -- 12

Appendix I:  Warranty and Copyright Information -- 13



---------

Page 2


An Overview

Interactive fiction is a story in which you are the main character. Your own thinking and imagination determine the actions of that character and guide the story from start to finish.

Each work of Infocom's interactive fiction, such as the three ZORK adventures, presents you with a series of locations, items, characters and events. You can interact with these in a variety of ways.

To move from place to place, type the direction you want to go. When you begin your adventure, it's a good idea to become familiar with your surroundings by exploring every location and reading each description carefully. (You may notice that ZORK occasionally refers to a location as a "room," even if you are outdoors.) As you explore the Empire, it is helpful to draw a map of the geography.

An important element of interactive fiction is puzzle-solving. You should think of a locked door or a ferocious beast not as a permanent obstacle, but merely as a puzzle to be tackled. Solving puzzles will frequently involve bringing a certain item with you and then using it in the proper way.

In ZORK, time passes only in response to your input. You might imagine a clock that ticks once for each sentence you type, and the adventure progresses only at each tick. Nothing happens until you type a sentence and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key, so you can plan your turns as slowly and carefully as you want.

To measure your progress, ZORK II keeps track of your score. You'll get points for solving puzzles, acquiring treasures, performing certain actions and visiting certain locations. You will also get points for putting treasures into the trophy case. There may be a penalty for getting "killed."



---------

Page 3


Tips for Novices

1. Draw a map. It should include each location, the directions connecting it to adjoining locations and any interesting objects there. (See the small sample map that goes along with the sample transcript on page 10.) Some puzzles are almost impossible to solve without completely mapping the area. Note that there are 10 possible directions, plus IN and OUT. And since some passages twist and curve, going NORTH from Place A to Place B doesn't always mean that SOUTH will take you back to Place A.

2. Most objects that you can pick up are important, either as treasures or as solutions to puzzles, or both!

3. Save your place often. That way, if you mess up or get "killed," you won't have to start over from the beginning. See page 5 for instructions.

4. Read carefully. There are often clues in the descriptions of locations and objects, as well as in labels, engravings, books and so on. Even strange or dangerous actions may provide clues and might prove to be fun! You can always save your position first if you want. Here's a fun example:

> PUT ON THE GREEN CALICO HAT
The munchkins giggle, but remain unconvinced that you're a witch.

You've just learned there is something which might convince the munchkins that you're a witch. They might even give you their enchanted broom. Perhaps if you put on that blue calico dress you came across earlier in the story...

5. Unlike other "adventure games" that you may have played, there are many possible routes to the end of ZORK. Some puzzles have more than one solution; other puzzles don't need to be solved at all. Sometimes you will have to solve one puzzle in order to obtain the item(s) or information you need to solve another puzzle.

6. You may find it helpful to explore ZORK with another person. Different people may find different puzzles easy and can often complement each other.

7. If you really have difficulty, you can order a hint booklet and a complete map using the order form in your package. You don't need the hint booklet to enjoy the story, but it will make solving ZORK II easier.

8. Read the sample transcript on page 10 to get a feel for how Infocom's interactive fiction works.

9. You can word a command in many different ways. For example, to turn the brass lantern on, you could use any of the following:

> LIGHT LAMP.
> TURN ON THE LAMP.
> TURN THE LAMP ON.
> ACTIVATE THE LAMP.
> LIGHT THE BRASS LANTERN.

In fact, if the lamp is the only light source present, just typing LIGHT is enough, since ZORK will assume you meant the lamp. But more about that in the next section...



---------

Page 4


Communicating with ZORK

In ZORK, you type your sentence in plain English each time you see the prompt (>). ZORK usually acts as if your sentence begins "I want to...," although you shouldn't actually type those words. You can use the words like "THE" if you want, and you can use capital letters if you want; ZORK doesn't care either way.

When you finish typing a sentence, press the RETURN (or ENTER) key and ZORK will process your request. ZORK will respond, telling you whether your request is possible at this point in the story and what happened as a result.

ZORK recognizes your words by their first six letters, and all subsequent letters are ignored. Therefore, CANDLE, CANDLEs and CANDLEstick would all be treated as the same word by ZORK.

To move around, just type the desired direction. You can use the eight compass directions: NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, WEST, NORTHEAST, NORTHWEST, SOUTHEAST and SOUTHWEST. You can abbreviate these to N, S, E, W, NE, NW, SE and SW, respectively. You can use UP (or U) and DOWN (or D). IN and OUT will also work in certain places.

ZORK understands many different kinds of sentences. Here are several examples. (Note that some of these objects do not actually appear in ZORK.)

> WALK NORTH
> DOWN
> NE
> GO SOUTH
> U
> TAKE BOX
> PICK UP THE WOODEN BOX
> DROP IT
> PUSH THE BUTTON
> OPEN THE WOODEN DOOR
> EXAMINE THE SCUBA GEAR
> LOOK BEHIND THE STATUE
> LOOK UNDER THE ROCK
> LOOK INSIDE THE BUBBLING CAULDRON
> KILL THE BEAR WITH THE GUN
> SHOOT BEAR WITH LARGE RIFLE

You can use multiple objects with certain verbs if you separate them by the word AND or by a comma. Some examples:

> TAKE LAMP, JAR, FLUTE
> DROP THE DAGGER, LANCE, AND MACE
> PUT THE GOLD BAR AND THE PEARL IN THE TROPHY CASE

The word ALL refers to every visible object except those inside something else. If there were an apple on the ground and an orange inside a cabinet, TAKE ALL would take the apple but not the orange.

> TAKE ALL
> TAKE ALL THE BOOKS
> TAKE ALL FROM THE DESK
> GIVE ALL BUT THE PENCIL TO THE NYMPH
> DROP ALL EXCEPT THE DART GUN

You can include several sentences on one input line if you separate them by the word THEN or by a period. (Note that each sentence will still count as a turn.) You don't need a period at the end of the input line. For example, you could type all of the following at once, before pressing the RETURN (or ENTER) key:

> NORTH.READ THE BOOK.DROP IT THEN BURN IT WITH TORCH

If ZORK doesn't understand one of the sentences in your input line, or if something unusual happens, it will ignore the rest of your input line (see "ZORK Complaints" on page 9).

There are only two kinds of questions that ZORK understands: WHAT and WHERE. Here are two examples that you can actually try in ZORK:

> WHAT IS A GRUE?
> WHERE IS THE ZORKMID?

You will meet other people and creatures as you explore ZORK. You can "talk" to some of these beings by typing their name, then a comma, then whatever you want them to do. Here are some examples:

> GNOME, GIVE ME THE KEY
> TREE SPRITE, OPEN THE SECRET DOOR
> JOEL, WAIT HERE
> WARLOCK, TAKE THE SPELL SCROLL THEN FOLLOW ME
> MIKE, NORTH.GET THE BRAN MUFFIN.THROW IT AT THE DWARF

Notice that in the last two examples, you are giving one person more than one command on the same input line.

You can use quotes to answer a question or say something "out loud." For example:

> SAY "HELLO SAILOR"
> ANSWER "A ZEBRA"
> INCANT "FROBOZZ FROBIZZLE"

ZORK tries to guess what you really mean when you don't give enough information. For example, if you say that you want to do something, but not what you want to do it to or with, ZORK will sometimes decide that there is only one possible object that you could mean. When it does so, it will tell you. For example:

> BURN THE KINDLING
(with the torch)
The kindling catches fire and is consumed.

or

> GIVE THE SWORD
(to the gnome)
The gnome, a sworn pacifist, refuses to take it.

If your sentence is ambiguous, ZORK will ask what you really mean. You can answer most of these questions briefly by supplying the missing information, rather than typing the entire input again. You can do this only at the very next prompt. Some examples:

> TIE THE ROPE
What do you want to tie the rope to?

> THE MAST
The rope is now tied to the mast.

or

> HIT THE NAIL WITH THE HAMMER
Which nail do you mean, the shiny nail or the rusty nail?

> SHINY
The shiny nail is driven halfway into the piece of wood.

ZORK uses many words in its descriptions that it will not recognize in your sentences. For example, you might read, "Above you, moonlit clouds flit across the evening sky." However, if ZORK doesn't recognize the words SKY or CLOUDS in your input, you can assume that the sky and clouds are not important to your completion of the story, except to provide you with a more vivid description of where you are or what is going on. ZORK recognizes over 600 words, nearly all that you are likely to use in your sentences. If ZORK doesn't know a word you used, or any of its common synonyms, you are almost certainly trying something that is not important in your adventure.



---------

Page 5


Starting and Stopping

Starting the story:  Now that you know what to expect when you venture into the caverns of ZORK, it's time for you to "boot" your disk. To load ZORK, follow the instructions on the Reference Card in your ZORK II package.

Following the copyright notice and the release number of the story, you will see a description of the place where the story begins.

Here's a quick exercise to help you get accustomed to interacting with ZORK II. Try the following command first:

> EXAMINE THE LAMP

Then press the RETURN (or ENTER) key. ZORK II will respond with:

The lamp is turned off.

Now try:

> TURN IT ON

After you press the RETURN (or ENTER) key, ZORK II will respond:

(Taken)
The lamp is now on.


Saving and restoring:  It will probably take you many days to complete ZORK II. Using the SAVE feature, you can continue at a later time without having to start over from the beginning, just as you can place a bookmark in a book you are reading. SAVE puts a "snapshot" of your place in the story onto another diskette. If you are a cautious adventurer, you may want to save your place before (or after) trying something dangerous or tricky. That way, you can go back to that position later, even if you have gotten lost or "killed" since then.

To save your place in the story, type SAVE at the prompt (>), and then press the RETURN (or ENTER) key. Then follow the instructions for saving and restoring on your Reference Card. Some systems require a blank disk, initialized and formatted, for saves. Using a disk with data on it (not counting other ZORK saves) may result in the loss of that data, depending on your system.

You can restore a saved position any time you want. To do so, type RESTORE at the prompt (>), and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key. Then follow the instructions on your Reference Card. You can then continue the story from the point where you used the SAVE command. You can type LOOK for a description of where you are.


Quitting and restarting:  If you want to start over from the beginning of the story, type RESTART. (This is usually faster than re-booting.) Just to make sure, ZORK will ask if you really want to start over. If you do, type Y or YES, and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.

If you want to stop, type QUIT. Once again, ZORK will ask if this is really what you want to do. If you do, type Y and press the RETURN key.

Remember when you RESTART or QUIT: if you want to be able to return to your current position, you must first do a SAVE.



---------

Page 6


Appendix A: Quick Reference Guide

1. To start the story ("boot up"), see the separate Reference Card in your ZORK package.

2. When you see the prompt (>) on your screen, ZORK is waiting for your command. There are four kinds of sentences or commands that ZORK understands:

A. Direction commands: To move from place to place, just type the direction you want to go: N (or NORTH), E, S, W, NE, SE, NW, SW, U (or UP), D, IN, OUT. 

B. Actions: Just type whatever you want to do. Some examples: READ THE BOOK or OPEN THE DOOR or LOOK THROUGH THE WINDOW. Once you're familiar with simple commands, you'll want to use more complex ones as described in "Communicating with ZORK" on page 4. 

C. Commands given to people: To talk to characters in the story, type their name, then a comma, then what you want to say to them. For example: TROLL, GIVE ME THE AXE or OLD MAN, GO NORTH. 

D. Special one-word commands: some one-word commands, such as INVENTORY or DIAGNOSE, give you specific information or affect your output. A list of these appears in the "Important Commands" appendix on page 7.

3. Important! After typing your sentence or command, you must press the RETURN (or ENTER) key before ZORK will respond.

4. On most computers, your screen will have a special line called the status line. It tells you the name of your current location, your score, and the number of turns you have taken.

5. You can pick up and carry many of the items you'll find in the story. For example, if you type TAKE THE NECKLACE, you will be carrying it. Type INVENTORY to see a list of everything you are carrying.

6. When you want to stop, save your place for later, or start over, read the "Starting and Stopping" section on page 5.

7. If you have trouble, refer to the specific section of the manual for more detailed instructions.



---------

Page 7


Appendix B: Important Commands

There are a number of one-word commands which you can type instead of a sentence. You can use them over and over as needed. Some count as a turn, 
others do not. Type the command after the prompt (>) and hit the RETURN (or ENTER) key.

AGAIN -- ZORK will usually respond as if you had repeated your previous sentence. Among the cases where AGAIN will not work is if you were just talking to another character. You can abbreviate AGAIN to G.

BRIEF -- This tells ZORK to give you the full description of a location only the first time you enter it. On subsequent visits, ZORK will tell you only the name of the location and the objects present. This is how ZORK will normally act, unless you tell it otherwise using the VERBOSE or SUPERBRIEF commands.

DIAGNOSE -- ZORK will give you a medical report of your physical condition. This is particularly useful if you have just survived a dangerous battle or if you are under the effects of a magical spell.

INVENTORY -- ZORK will list what you are carrying. You can abbreviate INVENTORY to I.

LOOK -- This tells ZORK to describe your location in full detail. You can abbreviate LOOK to L.

QUIT -- This lets you stop. If you want to save your position before quitting, follow the instructions in "Starting and Stopping" on page 5. You can abbreviate QUIT to Q.

RESTART -- This stops the story and starts over from the beginning.

RESTORE -- This restores a story position made using the SAVE command. See "Starting and Stopping" for more details.

SAVE -- This makes a "snapshot" of your current story position onto your storage disk. You can return to a saved position in the future using the RESTORE command. See "Starting and Stopping" for more details.

SCORE -- ZORK will show your current score and the number of turns you have taken. It will also tell you your rank, which is based on your score.

SCRIPT -- This command tells your printer to begin making a transcript of the story as you venture onwards. A transcript may aid your memory but is not necessary. It will work only on certain computers; read your Reference Card for details.

SUPERBRIEF -- This commands ZORK to display only the name of a place you have entered, even if you have never been there before. In this mode, ZORK will not even mention which objects are present. Of course, you can always get a description of your location, and the items there, by typing LOOK. In SUPERBRIEF mode, the blank line between turns will be eliminated. This mode is meant for adventurers who are already very familiar with the geography. Also see VERBOSE and BRIEF.

UNSCRIPT -- This commands your printer to stop making a transcript.

VERBOSE -- This tells ZORK that you want a complete description of each location and the objects in it every time you enter a location, even if you’ve been there before. Also see BRIEF and SUPERBRIEF.

VERSION -- ZORK responds by showing you the release number and the serial number of your copy of the story. Please include this information if you ever report a "bug" in ZORK.

WAIT -- This will cause time in the story to pass. Normally, between turns, nothing happens in the story. You could leave your computer, take a nap and return to the story to find that nothing has changed. You can use WAIT to make time pass in the story without doing anything. For example, if you encounter an alien being, you could WAIT to see what it will do. Or, if you are in a moving vehicle, you could WAIT to see where it will go. You can abbreviate WAIT to Z.



---------

Page 8


Appendix C: Some Recognized Verbs

This is only a partial list of the verbs that all three ZORK adventures understand. There are many more. Remember that you can use a variety of prepositions with them. For example, LOOK can become LOOK INSIDE, LOOK BEHIND, LOOK UNDER, LOOK THROUGH, LOOK AT and so on.

ANSWER      FOLLOW    SAY 
ATTACK      GIVE      SEARCH 
BLOW        INFLATE   SHAKE 
BREAK       JUMP      SLIDE 
BURN        KICK      SMELL 
CLIMB       KNOCK     STAY 
CLOSE       LIGHT     STRIKE 
COUNT       LISTEN    SWIM 
CROSS       LOCK      TAKE 
CUT         LOOK      TELL 
DEFLATE     LOWER     THROW 
DIG         MOVE      TIE 
DRINK       OPEN      TOUCH 
DROP        POUR      TURN 
EAT         PRAY      UNLOCK 
ENTER       PULL      WAKE 
EXAMINE     PUSH      WALK 
EXIT        PUT       WAVE
EXTINGUISH  RAISE     WEAR 
FILL        READ      WIND



---------

Page 9


Appendix D: ZORK Complaints

ZORK will complain if you type a sentence that confuses it completely. ZORK will then ignore the rest of the input line. (Unusual events, such as being attacked, may also cause ZORK to ignore the rest of the sentences you typed, since the event may have changed your situation drastically.) Some of ZORK's complaints:

I DON'T KNOW THE WORD "(your word)."
The word you typed is not in the story's vocabulary. Sometimes using a synonym or rephrasing will help. If not, ZORK probably doesn't know the idea you were trying to get across.

YOU USED THE WORD "(your word)" IN A WAY THAT I DON'T UNDERSTAND.
ZORK knows the word you typed, but couldn’t use it in that sense. Usually this is because ZORK knows the word as a different part of speech. For example, if you typed PRESS THE LOWER BUTTON, you are using LOWER as an adjective, but ZORK might know LOWER only as a verb, as in LOWER THE ROPE.

THAT SENTENCE ISN'T ONE I RECOGNIZE.
The sentence you typed may have been gibberish, such as GIVE TROLL WITH SWORD. Or, you may have typed a reasonable sentence but used a syntax that ZORK does not recognize, such as SMELL UNDER THE ROCK. Try rephrasing the sentence.

THERE WAS NO VERB IN THAT SENTENCE!
Unless you are answering a question, each sentence must have a verb (or a command) in it somewhere.

THERE SEEMS TO BE A NOUN MISSING IN THAT SENTENCE!
This usually means that your sentence was incomplete, such as EAT THE BLUE.

THERE WERE TOO MANY NOUNS IN THAT SENTENCE.
An example is PUT THE SOUP IN THE BOWL WITH THE LADLE, which has three noun "phrases," one more than ZORK can digest in a single action.

I BEG YOUR PARDON?
You hit the RETURN (or ENTER) key without typing anything.

IT'S TOO DARK TO SEE.
In the story, there was not enough light to perform your action.

I DON'T SEE WHAT YOU ARE REFERRING TO.
You used HIM, HER or IT, but ZORK isn't sure what person or object you meant.

YOU CAN'T SEE ANY "(object)" HERE!
The item you referred to was not visible. It may be somewhere else, inside a closed container, and so on.

THE OTHER OBJECT(S) THAT YOU MENTIONED ISN'T (AREN'T) HERE.
You referred to two or more items in the same sentence, and at least one of them wasn't visible to you in your present location.

YOU CAN'T GO THAT WAY.
There was no passage or exit in the direction you tried to move.

YOU CAN’T USE MULTIPLE (IN)DIRECT OBJECTS WITH "(your verb)." You can refer to several items at the same time only with certain verbs. Among the more useful of these verbs are TAKE, DROP and PUT. This restriction also applies to the use of ALL, as in DROP ALL. For example, ATTACK will not work with multiple objects; you couldn't say ATTACK ALL or ATTACK THE WARLOCK AND THE ENCHANTER.



---------

Page 10


Appendix E: Sample Transcript and Map

This transcript is not from any of the ZORK adventures, but it does show most of the usual things you can do in ZORK. It contains several simple puzzles and their solutions, and it will give you a good idea of how Infocom's interactive fiction works. The player's sentences appear in capital letters after each prompt (>). The map represents the terrain in the sample transcript as you might have drawn it.

[Sample map not included]


> APPLY THE BRAKES
The Frobozz Magic Go-Cart coasts to a stop.

Moss-lined Tunnel, in the Go-Cart
This is a long east-west tunnel whose walls are covered with green and yellow mosses.
There is a jewel-studded monkey wrench here. (outside the Go-Cart)
A bent and rusted monkey wrench is lying here. (outside the Go-Cart)

> TAKE THE WRENCH
Which wrench do you mean, the jeweled monkey wrench or the rusty monkey wrench?

> JEWELED
You can't reach it from inside the Go-Cart.

> WEST
You're not going anywhere until you stand up.

> GET OUT OF THE GO-CART
You are on your own feet again.

> TAKE THE JEWELED WRENCH
Taken.

> WEST
Lumber Yard
This is a huge room lined with metal shelves. There are exits to the east, northeast, and west.
There is a small cardboard box here.
Piled on one of the shelves is a supply of lumber.

> TAKE THE BOX AND THE LUMBER
small cardboard box: Taken.
supply of lumber: Your load is too heavy.

> INVENTORY
You are carrying:
   a lamp (providing light)
   a glass jar
   The glass jar contains:
      a quantity of pomegranate juice
   a jeweled monkey wrench
   a dart gun
   a small cardboard box

> DROP THE DART GUN
Dropped.

> TAKE THE LUMBER
Taken.

> LOOK INSIDE THE BOX
The small cardboard box is closed.

> OPEN IT
Opening the small cardboard box reveals a bunch of two-inch nails.

> EXAMINE THE LUMBER
It consists of two rectangular pieces of wood, about 10 feet long, and perhaps a dozen shorter dowel-shaped pieces.

> WALK NORTHEAST
Foreman's Office
This is the office of the lumber yard foreman. The only exit is to the southwest.

> SW
Lumber Yard
There is a dart gun here.

> WALK WEST
Carpentry Shop
You are in a room furnished with wooden shelves, cabinets, mantels and moldings, all gracefully carved out of fine wood. An array of precision tools adorns the walls. The only exit is south... unless you want to count the opening in the roof.
A carpenter gnome is sitting here, twiddling his thumbs.

>UP
The opening is too high to reach.

>GNOME, BUILD A LADDER
"I'd be glad to, but not for free!"

> GIVE THE JEWELED MONKEY WRENCH TO THE GNOME
The gnome examines the jeweled monkey wrench carefully. "Thank you," he exclaims, adding it to his collection of tools.

> GNOME, BUILD A LADDER
"Oh, yes, your ladder. Unfortunately, I have no lumber."

> GIVE THE LUMBER TO THE GNOME
The gnome accepts the supply of lumber.

> GNOME, BUILD LADDER
"Darn it! I'm fresh out of nails."

> GIVE NAILS
(to the gnome)
The gnome accepts the bunch of nails.

> GIVE THE LAMP TO THE GNOME
The gnome attempts to build a beautiful set of kitchen cabinets out of the lamp. Finally, he gives up and hands it back to you.

> GNOME, BUILD LADDER
The gnome grumbles but constructs a handsome wooden ladder. He admires his handiwork and hands you the ladder.

> PUT THE LADER THROUGH THE HOLE
I don't know the word "lader."

> PUT THE LADDER THROUGH THE HOLE
The ladder is now resting against the rim of the hole.

> UP
You're carrying too much to climb a ladder.

>I
You are carrying:
   a lamp (providing light)
   a glass jar
   The glass jar contains:
      a quantity of pomegranate juice
  a small cardboard box

> DROP ALL BUT THE LAMP
glass jar: Dropped.
small cardboard box: Dropped.

> LOOK
Carpentry Shop
You are in a room furnished with wooden shelves, cabinets, mantels and moldings, all gracefully carved out of fine wood. An array of precision tools adorns the walls. The only exit is south... unless you want to count the opening in the roof.
A carpenter gnome is sitting here, twiddling his thumbs.
There is a glass jar here.
The glass jar contains:
   a quantity of pomegranate juice
There is a small cardboard box here.

> UP
Monster's Lair
This is the den of the dreaded Seven-Headed Snow Monster of Snurth. It is quite chilly in here, and ice covers the floor and walls. A ladder protrudes from a hole in the ground, and sunlight comes from the cave entrance to the east.
The Snow Monster, bellowing loudly, blocks the eastern exit.

> DOWN.SOUTH.TAKE DART GUN.WEST.UP
Carpentry Shop
A carpenter gnome is sitting here, twiddling his thumbs.
There is a glass jar here.
The glass jar contains:
  a quantity of pomegranate juice
There is a small cardboard box here.

Lumber Yard
There is a dart gun here.

Taken.

Carpentry Shop
A carpenter gnome is sitting here, twiddling his thumbs.
There is a glass jar here.
The glass jar contains:
   a quantity of pomegranate juice
There is a small cardboard box here.

Monster's Lair
The Snow Monster, bellowing loudly, blocks the eastern exit.

> SHOOT MONSTER
What do you want to shoot the monster with?

> DART GUN
The Snow Monster clutches at the dart and then keels over. His body vanishes in a cloud of acrid black smoke.

> EAST
Orange Grove
A path leads northeast through this small grove of orange trees. A dark cave lies to the west. A sign is posted near the grove.

> READ THE SIGN
"Warning! These are poisonous oranges, not meant for human consumption.
         -- Farmer Bozbar"

> EAT AN ORANGE
Aaarrrr! It burns your tongue and your throat!
***You have died***

A forest sprite appears, looking concerned. "You've done it again," says the sprite, with a mixture of sympathy and disgust. "I'll give you only one more chance." She sprinkles some fairy dust on you…

Wooden Bridge
There is a lamp here.

> LOOK
Wooden Bridge
You are on a sturdy bridge leading northeast to southwest. The river below flows quickly amongst pointy rocks.
There is a lamp here.



---------

Page 11


Appendix F: We're Never Satisfied

Here at Infocom, we take great pride in the quality of our stories. Even after they're "out the door," we're constantly improving, honing and perfecting.

Your input is important. No matter how much testing we do, it seems that some "bugs" never crawl into view until thousands of you begin doing all those wild and crazy things to the story. If you find a bug, or if you think a certain puzzle was too hard or too easy, or if you have some other suggestion, or if you'd just like to tell us your opinion of ZORK, drop us a note! We love every excuse to stop working, and a letter from you is just such an excuse! Write to:

INFOCOM, INC.
125 CambridgePark Drive
Cambridge, MA 02140
Attn: DIMWIT FLATHEAD



Appendix G: If You Have Technical Problems

You can call the Infocom Technical Support Team to report bugs and technical problems, but not for hints to solve puzzles, at (617) 576-3190. If your disk develops a problem within ninety (90) days after purchase, we will replace it at no charge. Otherwise, there is a replacement fee of $5.00 (U.S. currency). If you call to report a bug, please provide your release number, which you can find by typing VERSION. Please return your registration card if you'd like to be on our mailing list and receive our newsletter, THE NEW ZORK TIMES.



---------

Page 12

Appendix H: Author Biographies

Marc Blank. A graduate of MIT and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Marc has been involved in writing interactive fiction since its formative period in the late 1970s. Co-author of the original mainframe version of ZORK in 1977, he was instrumental in laying the groundwork for the appearance of interactive fiction on personal computers in the early 1980s. He is co-author of ZORK I, ZORK II, ZORK III and ENCHANTER (TM), and is sole author of DEADLINE (TM), the first interactive mystery. His continuing work in interactive technologies in large part made Infocom's name synonymous with interactive fiction. His mother still wishes he would practice medicine.

Dave Lebling. Dave Lebling was born in Washington, D.C. and grew up in suburban Maryland. He attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and worked at MIT's Laboratory for Computer Science, where he developed an interest in computer entertainments. He was a co-author of the original mainframe ZORK. He has co-authored ZORK I, ZORK II, ZORK III and ENCHANTER, and written STARCROSS (TM) on his own. He is married and lives in a suburb of Boston, where his appetite for the printed word is restrained only by the volume of his house.



---------

Page 13

Appendix I: Warranty and Copyright Information

Limited Warranty

This software product and the attached instructional materials are sold "AS IS," without warranty as to their performance. The entire risk as to the quality and performance of the computer software program is assumed by the user.

However, to the original purchaser of a disk prepared by Infocom and carrying the Infocom label on the disk jacket, Infocom, Inc. warrants the medium on which the program is recorded to be free from defects in materials and faulty workmanship under normal use and service for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of purchase. If during this period a defect on the medium should occur, the medium may be returned to Infocom, Inc. or to an authorized Infocom, Inc. dealer, and Infocom, Inc. will replace the medium without charge to you. Your sole and exclusive remedy in the event of a defect is expressly limited to replacement of the medium as provided above. This warranty gives you specific legal rights and you may also have other rights which vary from state to state.

THE ABOVE WARRANTIES FOR GOODS ARE IN LIEU OF ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND OF ANY OTHER WARRANTY OB-LIGATION ON THE PART OF INFOCOM, INC. SOME STATES DO NOTALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. IN NO EVENT SHALL INFOCOM, INC. OR ANYONE ELSE WHO HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN THE CREATION AND PRODUCTION OF THIS COMPUTER SOFTWARE PROGRAM BE LIABLE FOR INDIRECT, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SUCH AS, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, LOSS OF ANTICIPATED PROFITS OR BENEFITS RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS PROGRAM, OR ARISING OUT OF ANY BREACH OF THIS WARRANTY. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. 

N.B. After the warranty period, a defective Infocom disk may be returned to Infocom, Inc. with a check or money order for $5.00 (U.S. currency) for replacement.


Copyright

The enclosed software product is copyrighted and all rights are re-served by Infocom, Inc. It is published exclusively by Infocom, Inc. The distribution and sale of this product are intended for the use of the original purchaser only and for use only on the computer system specified. Lawful users of this program are hereby licensed only to read the program from its medium into memory of a computer solely for the purpose of executing the program. Copying (except for one backup copy on those systems which provide for it--see Reference Card), duplicating, selling, or otherwise distributing this product is a violation of the law.

This manual and all other documentation contained herein are copyrighted and all rights are reserved by Infocom, Inc. These documents may not, in whole or in part, be copied, photocopied, reproduced, translated, or reduced to any electronic medium or machine-readable form without prior consent, in writing, from Infocom, Inc.

Willful violations of the Copyright Law of the United States can result in civil damages of up to $50,000 in addition to actual damages, plus criminal penalties of up to one year imprisonment and/or $10,000 fine.

ZORK is a registered trademark of Infocom, Inc.
DEADLINE, ENCHANTER and STARCROSS are registered trademarks of Infocom, Inc.

(C) 1984 Infocom, Inc.
Printed in U.S.A.

(C) 2001 Activision, Inc. Reproduced with permission. All right reserved.
