              Your greatest challenge lies ahead -- and downwards.

                                     Zork I:
                          The Great Underground Empire

                                       by
                                   Marc Blank
                                       and
                                  Dave Lebling


                              Interactive Fiction

                                    Fantasy

                                Standard Level




                         Instruction Manual & "Feelies"




[The letters of "ZORK I" are huge and take up almost half a page, in its middle. They are made of stone bricks, so they give a look of an old castle wall. In front of the letter "O", however is the partially opened heavy wooden door, with an iron lock, which is also open. Behind the door we see the part of the letter "O" and a light that comes from within the center of the letter. It seems like an invitation to venture in to experience adventure and all.]


---------

Buried deep within every ZORK I package: your ZORK I disk, a complete history of the Great Underground Empire and an incredible map not sold at any gas station known to Mankind.

[The program disk and map are shown resting against some large rocks on a moss-covered hillside. The game package is also there, opened to "The Great Underground Empire: A History". However, the inner cover of the package shows a gray and black drawing of a stone wall, whereas the later package has the "Take Their Words For It!" on the inner cover. Near the map is a coin. The coin's features are difficult to make out, but it appears to bear the likeness of Lord Dimwit Flathead. This coin is different than the Zorkmid that came in the "Zork Trilogy" package.]


> Throw the sack at the troll.

The troll, who is remarkably coordinated, catches the brown sack and, not having the most discriminating taste, gleefully eats it. The flat of the troll's axe hits you on the head...

WELCOME TO ZORK I: THE GREAT UNDERGROUND EMPIRE.
It beckons you into a world fraught with danger and discovery. Using all the cunning you can muster, you'll plunge far below the surface of the earth in search of the incomparable Treasures of Zork. But this is no mere treasure hunt. During your amazing journey, you'll come face to face with creatures so outlandish, they defy description. And you'll wander through an underground domain so vast, it can offer you new surprises no matter how many times you explore it.

GET INSIDE A STORY. GET ONE FROM INFOCOM!
It's like waking up inside a story! Load Infocom's interactive fiction into your computer and discover yourself at the center of a world jam-packed with surprising twists, unique characters and original, logical, often hilarious puzzles.

For the first time, you're more than a passive reader. You can talk to the story, typing in full English sentences. And the story talks right back, communicating entirely in vividly descriptive prose. What's more, you can actually shape the story's course of events through your choice of actions. And you have hundreds of alternatives at every step. In fact, there's so much you can see and do, your adventure can last for weeks and even months.

To find the Infocom interactive story that's right for you, just choose any one marked with the level of difficulty listed below that best matches your current level of interactive skill. 

Introductory: Best introduction to interactive fiction, with some built-in hints. Written for everyone from age 9 up.

Standard: This is Infocom's most popular level of interactive fiction, enjoyed by both first-time and experienced players.

Advanced: A greater level of challenge. Recommended for those who've already experienced Infocom's interactive fiction.

Expert: The ultimate challenge in interactive fiction.

Then find out what it's like to get inside a story. Get one from Infocom. Because with Infocom's interactive fiction, there's room for you on every disk.


INFOCOM
125 CambridgePark Drive, Cambridge, MA 02140
 
Interactive Fiction is available for most personal computers. Call us at 617-576-3190 for availability information.

Manufactured and Printed in USA
(C) 1984 Infocom, Inc.
Warranty information enclosed.
ZORK is a registered trademark of Infocom, Inc.



---------

[The back cover of "The Great Underground Empire: A History" provides our introduction to Zork I:]

The faint-of-heart need not apply!

As for the dauntless, prepare to encounter the unknown. The long-abandoned Great Underground Empire -- a fantastic realm of magic and mystery -- is yours for the exploring.

Abandoned, yes -- but the Empire is not totally uninhabited.  Still lurking in its crags and crevices are numberous creatures with whom you must match wits, skill and bravery -- a thief, a troll and other troglodytes of equally ill repute.  Your survival depends on how successfully you vie with these denizens and solve the subterranean world's manifold puzzles. But before you can truly emerge victorious from the cavernous quarters of Zork, you must collect its many priceless treasures and safely bear them to daylight.

Courage, cunning and logic.  You will need them all to triumph.  The Great Underground Empire awaits.  We dare you to enter it!

The Table of Contents for the manual is on page 1.  Take a look at it to determine what you should read before you start the story.



---------

TAKE THEIR WORDS FOR IT!

"...the 'Star Wars' of interactive computer adventure games, a sophisticated entertainment that touches the intellect as well as the adrenal glands."
THE DETROIT FREE PRESS

"The program is so lifelike I find myself talking to it."
Curtis, 26, Salesclerk
Phoenix 

"I use ZORK with new employees to get them to relax with the computer (before they learn their regular jobs)."
Lawrence, 44, Manager
Pacific Palisades, California

"As I typed READ THE LEAFLET, I felt the hair on my neck prickle. I remembered having the same sensation on first reading Edgar Allen Poe at age 11. It was as if a little voice were saying, 'This is creepy and weird ... but don't put it down!'  I barely noticed my wife tiptoe out of the room."
From "How ZORK Took Over My Life,"
by Mike Oppenheim, M.D.
In MEDICAL ECONOMICS magazine

"Nice big vocabulary, mind-boggling situations and logical thinking.
I can use my brain!!"
Diane, 14
Omaha

"Great!!"
Douglas, 47, Teacher
Mountain View, California

"All-Time Most Popular Adventure"
SOFTALK READERS' POLL

"WOW!"
Michael, 37, Minister
Lubbock, Texas



---------

"The Great Underground Empire:  A History"
by Froboz Mumbar

Frobozz Magic Book Company
Copied right in the year 896.  All rights reserved.

[The History was published with a leather cover, shiny and richly textured, dark wine red in color. The imprinted words are in a light yellow.]



Festeron Town Library bookplate

02/06/897   09/22/918
03/03/898   05/13/919
09/19/900   02/21/948
06/07/903
01/34/917
04/04/917
08/32/918


Please take care of me... library books belong to everyone.

[The bookplate contains a drawing at the top, above the area where the check-out dates are stamped. The drawing of the Festeron library is done in the same style and coloring as the rest of the pictures in this book. The library is two stories high and resembles a castle: the entrance is straddled by two round towers with cone-shaped roofs that are slightly taller than the main roof, and between them and above the entrance is another tower which has a traditional flat roof. On the second floor are two skyways at the left and right ends of the building, but we do not see which buildings these lead to.]



CHAPTER ONE:
The Bellicose King

[As in all chapters in this book, the first one starts with its very first letter nicely decorated and ornameted. The letter "I" is in little rectangle which color slowly changes from dark green to light green downards from top to bottom. The letter "I" is on the left side in the rectangle, while the other two thirds are occupied by a very nice picture of a green plant with leaves and some white flowers.]

In 659 GUE*, the Kingdom of Quendor was relatively small, encompassing seven-and-a-half provinces on the western shore of the Great Sea, an agrarian land whose major products were rope and mosquito netting. It was the thirty-first year of the reign of Zilbo III, part of a dynasty dating back more than six centuries to Entharion the Wise, the first King of Quendor. However, that dynasty was about to end with the ascension of Duncanthrax to the throne of Quendor on the final day of 659.

(*Adding "GUE" after a year did not become common practice until the latter part of the eighth century.)

Little is known about what became of Zilbo after 659. Some say he was killed during a palace revolt, or simply died from too much reveling while celebrating the upcoming New Year. There is evidence that he was exiled to a villa where he invented the card game Double Fanucci.

Likewise, historians disagree about Duncanthrax's life prior to 659. A petition signed by palace guards in 657, asking for an increase in the mosquito netting allotment, bears a signature that looks suspiciously like "Duncanthrax." Some historians insist that Duncanthrax was general of the Royal Militia. One legend even suggests that Duncanthrax was a demon who assumed human form. Another legend describes him as a former rope salesman.

Whatever his origins, Duncanthrax quickly developed a reputation for cruelty, bloodthirstiness and aggressiveness, thus earning himself the nickname "The Bellicose King." He raised a tremendous army and began a systematic conquest of the neighboring kingdoms. Within three years, Duncanthrax ruled an empire that controlled virtually all the land between the Great Sea and the Kovalli Desert.


An ancient villa on the outskirts of Mithicus, similar to the one where Zilbo may have lived in exile.

[The drawing showing a villa near Mithicus. It is full of round and square towers of various sizes, from very big to very small, and the roofs are either brown or blue. The villa seems to be near some kind of forest, because on the left side, it is slowly engulfed in some green vegetation. The trees are also all over between the houses and towers. In the forefront we see a bit of the protection wall, which probably surrounds the whole city.]


Questions, Discussions, Projects and Further Readings:

1. Would you have left a job as a rope salesman to become King of Quendor? List the pros and cons. 

2. Find Quendor on a modern map.  Is it a large area?  What natural features of the area would have helped Quendor to conquer all the neighboring lands?

3. Do you think that Duncanthrax was a mean king for attacking other kingdoms?  What other reasons besides meanness might he have had?

4. Stage a mock peace conference, with one of your classmates playing Duncanthrax and other classmates playing the kings of the surrounding lands. The other kings should try to convince Duncanthrax not to attack them.

5. Read "The New Year's Revolt," by Jezbar Foolion.



CHAPTER TWO:
An Empire Goes Underground

In 665, the forces of Duncanthrax vanquished the Antharian Armada at the famous battle of Fort Griffspotter. The island-nation of Antharia was, at the time, the world's premier sea power, and this victory gave Duncanthrax undisputed control of the Great Sea and put the superb ship-building facilities of Antharia at his disposal. (The conquest of Antharia also gave Duncanthrax possession of Antharia's famed granola mines. Unfortunately, no one in Quendor liked granola.)

Within months, Quendor's navy was returning from voyages with tales of a magical land on the distant eastern shore of the Great Sea. Duncanthrax was incensed that this vast land existed outside his dominion, and spent many nights storming the halls of his castle bellowing at his servants and advisors. Then, one day, he had a sudden inspiration: assemble a huge fleet, cross the Great Sea and conquer the lands on the eastern shore. Not only would he extend his empire, but he'd finally have a market for all that useless granola.

As Duncanthrax's invasion swept across the new lands, he made a startling discovery: huge caverns and tunnels, populated by gnomes, trolls and other magical races, all of whom loved granola. Even as Duncanthrax conquered this region, his imagination was inspired by this natural underground formation.  If these caverns and tunnels were possible in nature, so might they be formed by humans! Duncanthrax realized that by burrowing into the ground he could increase the size of his empire fivefold or even tenfold!

The Frobozz Magic Construction Company (the forerunner of the modern industrial giant FrobozzCo International) was formed to undertake this project in 668. For the remaining 20 years of Duncanthrax's reign, cavern-building continued at a breakneck pace. The natural caverns in the eastern lands were expanded tremendously, and new caverns and passages were dug in the western lands, chiefly in the vicinity of Duncanthrax's castle, Egreth. By the time of his death in 688, Duncanthrax ruled virtually all territory in the known world, above and below ground.


In 666, Duncanthrax's navy returned from its expedition to the eastern shore of the Great Sea with tales of a magical underground civilization (left) and giant red x's (right).

[The left-hand picture shows the ship riding the high stormy wave, which is a bit strange since otherwise the sea all around the ship is calm. The ship is wooden of uknown type, with two masts and three big white sails on each. On each mast and also at the rear of the ship are the flags billowing in the wind. One flag is blue, the other light red and the third dark red. The ship itself is in the bay and is heading towards the beach with a mountain cliff. There is an entrance in the mountain side, with a plaque above the entrance. The name on the plaque is too small to read clearly, but seems to say "GRANOLA". Historians still debate whether the plaque follows the tradition of bearing the name of the mine, or whether this was just used to indicate the contents of the mine.]

[The right-hand picture shows a calm river. Its surface is clear blue and even shows a reflection of a couple of white clouds. The ground is covered in green grass and trees all around. There are even few islands in the river, also with trees. On the right bank there is a huge red cross, marking a place with some treasure, probably.]


EXPENDATURES OF THREE ROYAL GOVERNMENTS

580 GUE:
2% Royal Bureaucracy
14% Military
18% Construction of Roads and Bridges
66% Other

680 GUE:
5% Other
8% Royal Bureaucracy
33% Military
54% Construction of Caverns

780 GUE:
1% Military
2% Other
29% Construction of Dams, etc.
68% Royal Bureaucracy

These pie charts show the fiscal priorities of the Empire under three kings who ruled centuries apart: Bozbo IV, Duncanthrax and Dimwit Flathead.


Questions, Discussions, Projects and Further Readings:

1. What would it be like to live underground? If there are any caves near your home, spend a week underground to see what it's like. 

2. Read "Construction of the Empire," by Mumboz Agrippa, "Wouldn't It Be Fun To Live Underground?," by Lorissa Frob and "The Seventy Year Snidgel," by Harv Dornfrob.



CHAPTER THREE:
The Flatheads

After Duncanthrax, the throne was occupied by a long series of his descendants. These were unspectacular rulers, who took on the surname Flathead, for obscure reasons not necessarily related to the planar shape of their pates. During this period, there was very little change in the Empire, as the conquered kingdoms were assimilated into Quendor and the frantic pace of tunneling gradually abated.

In 770, nearly a century after the death of Duncanthrax, his great-great-grandson, Dimwit Flathead, assumed the throne. Lord Dimwit, as he liked to be called, was a colorful character, but was also the single worst ruler the Empire ever produced. His vanity was surpassed only by his outrageous sense of proportion. For example, his coronation took 13 years to plan (and therefore took place two-thirds of the way through his reign), lasted an additional year and a half, and cost 12 times the Empire's GNP.

Dimwit was the first king to call Quendor "The Great Underground Empire," and within a few years the new name had completely displaced the older one. Dimwit also renamed the Great Sea "the Flathead Ocean," and seemed to prefer the newer lands on the eastern shore. He even moved the Empire's capital from Egreth (in the westlands) to Flatheadia (in the eastlands).

While Dimwit certainly inherited Duncanthrax's ambition and ingratiating personality, he directed them in a somewhat less productive fashion. Whereas Duncanthrax used his power to expand his empire, Dimwit was motivated to realize his bizarre whims. Raising the kingdom's tax rate to just over 98%, Dimwit began a series of grandiose projects that soon earned him the title "Flathead the Excessive." Among these projects: the construction of mammoth Flood Control Dam Number Three (a massive edifice with virtually no useful purpose, since it never rains underground), the creation of the Royal Museum (to house the crown jewels), the defoliation of four hundred thousand acres of lush forest (to erect a nine-bloit-high statue of himself in the Fublio Valley) and the production of enormous granola smelters of Plumbat.

Just before his death in 789, Flathead was rumored to be planning his greatest dream: the creation of a new continent in the center of the Flathead Ocean. The outline and contours of the new continent would have been a gigantic reproduction of his own visage.



Questions, Discussions, Projects and Further Readings:

1. How many things can you think of that are named after the Flatheads? Make a list.

2. Try to collect 10 zorkmids from everyone on your block, telling them that the money will be used to erect a giant statue of yourself. Use force if necessary. See if the others on your block begin to resent you.

3. Read "The Lives of the Twelve Flatheads," by Boswell Barwell.


Lord Dimwit erected a nine-bloit-high statue of himself to lend credence to the Royal motto, "A truly great leader is larger than life."

[The upper half of the page is taken by the picture of a huge, and I mean really *huge* stone statue standing in the clearing in the woods. Actually, the statue is so big, that we don't see the human figure it depicts at all -- we only see its shoes, ankles and calves, stopping just below the knees. Trees surrounding the statue reach only as high as the statue's knees..]


IMPORTANT POLITICAL AND CULTURAL EVENTS

Cultural events:
668  FrobozzCo International Incorporated
691  1st Double Fanucci Championship
732  Frobozz Philharmonic Founded
777  Royal Museum Dedicated
841  Elvis Flathead's First Concert

Political events:
659  Duncanthrax Ascends Throne
666  Underground Caverns Discovered
688  Duncanthrax Dies
770  Dimwit Flathead Ascends Throne
789  Dimwit Flathead Dies
865  Granola Riots
883  Great Underground Empire Falls

This time line shows the dates of some of the events that shaped the history of The Great Underground Empire. Cultural events are listed above the time line and political events are listed below.



CHAPTER FOUR:
Fall of the Empire

Although Dimwit was certainly the most flagrantly indulgent ruler in the history of The Great Underground Empire, most of the Flatheads who followed him did their best to uphold the tradition of excessiveness. The high level of taxation continued, although the money was increasingly spent not on massive construction projects but on extravagant parties and long vacation trips for members of the Royal Family.

In 883, after countless years of decadence and over-taxation, The Great Underground Empire collapsed, the Royal Treasury was sacked and everyone moved somewhere else.


THE KINGS OF QUENDOR

The Entharion Dynasty
Entharion the Wise:     0-41
Mysterion the Brave:   41-55
Zylon the Aged:       55-398
Zilbo I:             398-423
Bozbo I:             423-429
Zilbo II:            429-451
Harmonious Fzort:    451-477
Bozbo II:            477-481
Thaddium Fzort:      481-545
Mumbo I:             545-569
Bozbo III:           569-575
Bozbo IV:            575-619
Mumbo II:            619-628
Zilbo III:           628-659

The Flathead Dynasty
Duncanthrax the Bellicose: 659-688
Belwit the Flat:           688-701
Frobwit the Flatter:       701-727
Timberthrax Flathead:      727-738
Phloid Flathead:           738-755
Mumberthrax Flathead:      755-770
Dimwit Flathead:           770-789
Loowit Flathead:           789-813
Duncwit Flathead:          813-843
Barbawit Flathead:         843-845
Idwit Oogle Flathead:      845-881
Wurb Flathead:             881-883

This table shows the rulers of Quendor, later known as The Great Underground Empire, through its collapse in 883 GUE.



Questions, Discussions, Projects and Further Readings:

1. Collect several horses for yourself and your classmates. Ride through the center of your town, pillaging stores, burning homes and slaughtering young children and old women. Afterwards, ask people around town what it was like to live in a lawless state. 

2. Read "The Dark Age of Frobozz," by Sybar Zeebin and "So You Want To Sack an Empire," by Uncle Frobizzmus.



---------

The map:

[The map drawn in washed out orange color, making it seem old and ancient. It shows the Frigid River Valley, in the eastern section of Quendor. On the left is the Flathead Ocean, with a couple of unindentifiable sea monsters swimming in it. The Frigid River flows southwest and spills into the ocean. As we follow the river upstream, we see the hollowed-out volcano on our left that we eventually encounter in Zork II, traverse Aragain Falls, and then discover that the river comes from the entrance to the undermountain. This entrance has some writing above it, but the letters are in the Quendorian language and thus unreadable to us. It may indicate that Flood Control Dam #3 is just beyond the entrance.

Such Quendorian writings mark the forests in lower right corner and middle of the map, the Flathead Mountains at the top of the map, and also on a couple of lakes on the right side of the map. It is in the coastal forest shown in the middle of the map that we begin our exploration of The Great Underground Empire, starting West of House.]



---------

Page 1


Instruction Manual for ZORK I: The Great Underground Empire
 
Welcome to ZORK! You are about to experience a classic interactive fantasy, set in a magical universe. The ZORK trilogy takes place in the ruins of an ancient empire lying far underground. You, a dauntless treasure-hunter, are venturing into this dangerous land in search of wealth and adventure. Because each part of the ZORK saga is a completely independent story, you can explore them in any order. However, since ZORK I is the least difficult, it is usually the best place to begin.

Many strange tales have been told of the fabulous treasures, exotic creatures and diabolical puzzles in the Great Underground Empire. As an aspiring adventurer, you will undoubtedly want to locate the treasures and deposit them in your trophy case. You'd better equip yourself with a source of light (for the caverns are dark) and weapons (for some of the inhabitants are unfriendly—especially the thief, a skilled pickpocket and ruthless opponent).

If you're experienced with Infocom's interactive fiction, you may not feel like reading this entire manual. However, you should at least read about scoring (on page 2) and look at the appendix of recognized verbs (on page 8).


Table of Contents

An Overview -- Page 2
* What is interactive fiction? 
* Moving around 
* Turns and scoring

Tips for Novices -- 3
Nine useful pointers about interactive fiction

Communicating with ZORK -- 4
* Basic sentences 
* Complex sentences 
* Talking to characters in the story 
* Vocabulary limitations 

Starting and Stopping -- 5
* Starting ZORK ("Booting Up") 
* Saving and restoring 
* Quitting and restarting 

Appendix A: Quick Reference Guide -- 6
This briefly describes the most important things to know about interactive fiction. It is vital that you know all these things before you begin your adventure.

Appendix B:  Important Commands -- 7

Appendix C:  Some Recognized Verbs -- 8

Appendix D:  ZORK Complaints -- 9

Appendix E:  Sample Transcript and Map -- 10

Appendix F:  We're Never Satisfied -- 11

Appendix G:  If You Have Technical Problems -- 11

Appendix H:  Author Biographies -- 12

Appendix I:  Warranty and Copyright Information -- 13



---------

Page 2


An Overview

Interactive fiction is a story in which you are the main character. Your own thinking and imagination determine the actions of that character and guide the story from start to finish.

Each work of Infocom's interactive fiction, such as the three ZORK adventures, presents you with a series of locations, items, characters and events. You can interact with these in a variety of ways.

To move from place to place, type the direction you want to go. When you begin your adventure, it's a good idea to become familiar with your surroundings by exploring every location and reading each description carefully. (You may notice that ZORK occasionally refers to a location as a "room," even if you are outdoors.) As you explore the Empire, it is helpful to draw a map of the geography.

An important element of interactive fiction is puzzle-solving. You should think of a locked door or a ferocious beast not as a permanent obstacle, but merely as a puzzle to be tackled. Solving puzzles will frequently involve bringing a certain item with you and then using it in the proper way.

In ZORK, time passes only in response to your input. You might imagine a clock that ticks once for each sentence you type, and the adventure progresses only at each tick. Nothing happens until you type a sentence and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key, so you can plan your turns as slowly and carefully as you want.

To measure your progress, ZORK I keeps track of your score. You'll get points for solving puzzles, acquiring treasures, performing certain actions and visiting certain locations. You will also get points for putting treasures into the trophy case. There may be a penalty for getting "killed."



---------

Page 3


Tips for Novices

1. Draw a map. It should include each location, the directions connecting it to adjoining locations and any interesting objects there. (See the small sample map that goes along with the sample transcript on page 10.) Some puzzles are almost impossible to solve without completely mapping the area. Note that there are 10 possible directions, plus IN and OUT. And since some passages twist and curve, going NORTH from Place A to Place B doesn't always mean that SOUTH will take you back to Place A.

2. Most objects that you can pick up are important, either as treasures or as solutions to puzzles, or both!

3. Save your place often. That way, if you mess up or get "killed," you won't have to start over from the beginning. See page 5 for instructions.

4. Read carefully. There are often clues in the descriptions of locations and objects, as well as in labels, engravings, books and so on. Even strange or dangerous actions may provide clues and might prove to be fun! You can always save your position first if you want. Here's a fun example:

> PUT ON THE GREEN CALICO HAT
The munchkins giggle, but remain unconvinced that you're a witch.

You've just learned there is something which might convince the munchkins that you're a witch. They might even give you their enchanted broom. Perhaps if you put on that blue calico dress you came across earlier in the story...

5. Unlike other "adventure games" that you may have played, there are many possible routes to the end of ZORK. Some puzzles have more than one solution; other puzzles don't need to be solved at all. Sometimes you will have to solve one puzzle in order to obtain the item(s) or information you need to solve another puzzle.

6. You may find it helpful to explore ZORK with another person. Different people may find different puzzles easy and can often complement each other.

7. If you really have difficulty, you can order a hint booklet and a complete map using the order form in your package. You don't need the hint booklet to enjoy the story, but it will make solving ZORK I easier.

8. Read the sample transcript on page 10 to get a feel for how Infocom's interactive fiction works.

9. You can word a command in many different ways. For example, to turn the brass lantern on, you could use any of the following:

> LIGHT LAMP.
> TURN ON THE LAMP.
> TURN THE LAMP ON.
> ACTIVATE THE LAMP.
> LIGHT THE BRASS LANTERN.

In fact, if the lamp is the only light source present, just typing LIGHT is enough, since ZORK will assume you meant the lamp. But more about that in the next section...



---------

Page 4


Communicating with ZORK

In ZORK, you type your sentence in plain English each time you see the prompt (>). ZORK usually acts as if your sentence begins "I want to...," although you shouldn't actually type those words. You can use the words like "THE" if you want, and you can use capital letters if you want; ZORK doesn't care either way.

When you finish typing a sentence, press the RETURN (or ENTER) key and ZORK will process your request. ZORK will respond, telling you whether your request is possible at this point in the story and what happened as a result.

ZORK recognizes your words by their first six letters, and all subsequent letters are ignored. Therefore, CANDLE, CANDLEs and CANDLEstick would all be treated as the same word by ZORK.

To move around, just type the desired direction. You can use the eight compass directions: NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, WEST, NORTHEAST, NORTHWEST, SOUTHEAST and SOUTHWEST. You can abbreviate these to N, S, E, W, NE, NW, SE and SW, respectively. You can use UP (or U) and DOWN (or D). IN and OUT will also work in certain places.

ZORK understands many different kinds of sentences. Here are several examples. (Note that some of these objects do not actually appear in ZORK.)

> WALK NORTH
> DOWN
> NE
> GO SOUTH
> U
> TAKE BOX
> PICK UP THE WOODEN BOX
> DROP IT
> PUSH THE BUTTON
> OPEN THE WOODEN DOOR
> EXAMINE THE SCUBA GEAR
> LOOK BEHIND THE STATUE
> LOOK UNDER THE ROCK
> LOOK INSIDE THE BUBBLING CAULDRON
> KILL THE BEAR WITH THE GUN
> SHOOT BEAR WITH LARGE RIFLE

You can use multiple objects with certain verbs if you separate them by the word AND or by a comma. Some examples:

> TAKE LAMP, JAR, FLUTE
> DROP THE DAGGER, LANCE, AND MACE
> PUT THE GOLD BAR AND THE PEARL IN THE TROPHY CASE

The word ALL refers to every visible object except those inside something else. If there were an apple on the ground and an orange inside a cabinet, TAKE ALL would take the apple but not the orange.

> TAKE ALL
> TAKE ALL THE BOOKS
> TAKE ALL FROM THE DESK
> GIVE ALL BUT THE PENCIL TO THE NYMPH
> DROP ALL EXCEPT THE DART GUN

You can include several sentences on one input line if you separate them by the word THEN or by a period. (Note that each sentence will still count as a turn.) You don't need a period at the end of the input line. For example, you could type all of the following at once, before pressing the RETURN (or ENTER) key:

> NORTH.READ THE BOOK.DROP IT THEN BURN IT WITH TORCH

If ZORK doesn't understand one of the sentences in your input line, or if something unusual happens, it will ignore the rest of your input line (see "ZORK Complaints" on page 9).

There are only two kinds of questions that ZORK understands: WHAT and WHERE. Here are two examples that you can actually try in ZORK:

> WHAT IS A GRUE?
> WHERE IS THE ZORKMID?

You will meet other people and creatures as you explore ZORK. You can "talk" to some of these beings by typing their name, then a comma, then whatever you want them to do. Here are some examples:

> GNOME, GIVE ME THE KEY
> TREE SPRITE, OPEN THE SECRET DOOR
> JOEL, WAIT HERE
> WARLOCK, TAKE THE SPELL SCROLL THEN FOLLOW ME
> MIKE, NORTH.GET THE BRAN MUFFIN.THROW IT AT THE DWARF

Notice that in the last two examples, you are giving one person more than one command on the same input line.

You can use quotes to answer a question or say something "out loud." For example:

> SAY "HELLO SAILOR"
> ANSWER "A ZEBRA"

ZORK tries to guess what you really mean when you don't give enough information. For example, if you say that you want to do something, but not what you want to do it to or with, ZORK will sometimes decide that there is only one possible object that you could mean. When it does so, it will tell you. For example:

> BURN THE KINDLING
(with the torch)
The kindling catches fire and is consumed.

or

> GIVE THE SWORD
(to the gnome)
The gnome, a sworn pacifist, refuses to take it.

If your sentence is ambiguous, ZORK will ask what you really mean. You can answer most of these questions briefly by supplying the missing information, rather than typing the entire input again. You can do this only at the very next prompt. Some examples:

> TIE THE ROPE
What do you want to tie the rope to?

> THE MAST
The rope is now tied to the mast.

or

> HIT THE NAIL WITH THE HAMMER
Which nail do you mean, the shiny nail or the rusty nail?

> SHINY
The shiny nail is driven halfway into the piece of wood.

ZORK uses many words in its descriptions that it will not recognize in your sentences. For example, you might read, "Above you, moonlit clouds flit across the evening sky." However, if ZORK doesn't recognize the words SKY or CLOUDS in your input, you can assume that the sky and clouds are not important to your completion of the story, except to provide you with a more vivid description of where you are or what is going on. ZORK recognizes over 600 words, nearly all that you are likely to use in your sentences. If ZORK doesn't know a word you used, or any of its common synonyms, you are almost certainly trying something that is not important in your adventure.



---------

Page 5


Starting and Stopping

Starting the story:  Now that you know what to expect when you venture into the caverns of ZORK, it's time for you to "boot" your disk. To load ZORK, follow the instructions on the Reference Card in your ZORK I package.

Following the copyright notice and the release number of the story, you will see a description of the place where the story begins.

Here's a quick exercise to help you get accustomed to interacting with ZORK I. Try the following command first:

> OPEN THE MAILBOX

Then press the RETURN (or ENTER) key. ZORK I will respond with:

Opening the mailbox reveals a leaflet.

Now try:

> READ THE LEAFLET

After you press the RETURN (or ENTER) key, ZORK I will respond:

(Taken)
Welcome to ZORK!

ZORK is a story of adventure, danger and low cunning. In it you will explore some of the most amazing territory ever seen by mortals.  No computer should be without one.


Saving and restoring:  It will probably take you many days to complete ZORK I. Using the SAVE feature, you can continue at a later time without having to start over from the beginning, just as you can place a bookmark in a book you are reading. SAVE puts a "snapshot" of your place in the story onto another diskette. If you are a cautious adventurer, you may want to save your place before (or after) trying something dangerous or tricky. That way, you can go back to that position later, even if you have gotten lost or "killed" since then.

To save your place in the story, type SAVE at the prompt (>), and then press the RETURN (or ENTER) key. Then follow the instructions for saving and restoring on your Reference Card. Some systems require a blank disk, initialized and formatted, for saves. Using a disk with data on it (not counting other ZORK saves) may result in the loss of that data, depending on your system.

You can restore a saved position any time you want. To do so, type RESTORE at the prompt (>), and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key. Then follow the instructions on your Reference Card. You can then continue the story from the point where you used the SAVE command. You can type LOOK for a description of where you are.


Quitting and restarting:  If you want to start over from the beginning of the story, type RESTART. (This is usually faster than re-booting.) Just to make sure, ZORK will ask if you really want to start over. If you do, type Y or YES, and press the RETURN (or ENTER) key.

If you want to stop, type QUIT. Once again, ZORK will ask if this is really what you want to do. If you do, type Y and press the RETURN key.

Remember when you RESTART or QUIT: if you want to be able to return to your current position, you must first do a SAVE.



---------

Page 6


Appendix A: Quick Reference Guide

The object of ZORK I is to find the treasures of the Great Underground Empire and put them in your trophy case.

1. To start the story ("boot up"), see the separate Reference Card in your ZORK package.

2. When you see the prompt (>) on your screen, ZORK is waiting for your command. There are four kinds of sentences or commands that ZORK understands:

A. Direction commands: To move from place to place, just type the direction you want to go: N (or NORTH), E, S, W, NE, SE, NW, SW, U (or UP), D, IN, OUT. 

B. Actions: Just type whatever you want to do. Some examples: READ THE BOOK or OPEN THE DOOR or LOOK THROUGH THE WINDOW. Once you're familiar with simple commands, you'll want to use more complex ones as described in "Communicating with ZORK" on page 4. 

C. Commands given to people: To talk to characters in the story, type their name, then a comma, then what you want to say to them. For example: TROLL, GIVE ME THE AXE or OLD MAN, GO NORTH. 

D. Special one-word commands: some one-word commands, such as INVENTORY or DIAGNOSE, give you specific information or affect your output. A list of these appears in the "Important Commands" appendix on page 7.

3. Important! After typing your sentence or command, you must press the RETURN (or ENTER) key before ZORK will respond.

4. On most computers, your screen will have a special line called the status line. It tells you the name of your current location, your score, and the number of turns you have taken.

5. You can pick up and carry many of the items you'll find in the story. For example, if you type TAKE THE NECKLACE, you will be carrying it. Type INVENTORY to see a list of everything you are carrying.

6. When you want to stop, save your place for later, or start over, read the "Starting and Stopping" section on page 5.

7. If you have trouble, refer to the specific section of the manual for more detailed instructions.



---------

Page 7


Appendix B: Important Commands

There are a number of one-word commands which you can type instead of a sentence. You can use them over and over as needed. Some count as a turn, 
others do not. Type the command after the prompt (>) and hit the RETURN (or ENTER) key.

AGAIN -- ZORK will usually respond as if you had repeated your previous sentence. Among the cases where AGAIN will not work is if you were just talking to another character. You can abbreviate AGAIN to G.

BRIEF -- This tells ZORK to give you the full description of a location only the first time you enter it. On subsequent visits, ZORK will tell you only the name of the location and the objects present. This is how ZORK will normally act, unless you tell it otherwise using the VERBOSE or SUPERBRIEF commands.

DIAGNOSE -- ZORK will give you a medical report of your physical condition. This is particularly useful if you have just survived a dangerous battle or if you are under the effects of a magical spell.

INVENTORY -- ZORK will list what you are carrying. You can abbreviate INVENTORY to I.

LOOK -- This tells ZORK to describe your location in full detail. You can abbreviate LOOK to L.

QUIT -- This lets you stop. If you want to save your position before quitting, follow the instructions in "Starting and Stopping" on page 5. You can abbreviate QUIT to Q.

RESTART -- This stops the story and starts over from the beginning.

RESTORE -- This restores a story position made using the SAVE command. See "Starting and Stopping" for more details.

SAVE -- This makes a "snapshot" of your current story position onto your storage disk. You can return to a saved position in the future using the RESTORE command. See "Starting and Stopping" for more details.

SCORE -- ZORK will show your current score and the number of turns you have taken. It will also tell you your rank, which is based on your score.

SCRIPT -- This command tells your printer to begin making a transcript of the story as you venture onwards. A transcript may aid your memory but is not necessary. It will work only on certain computers; read your Reference Card for details.

SUPERBRIEF -- This commands ZORK to display only the name of a place you have entered, even if you have never been there before. In this mode, ZORK will not even mention which objects are present. Of course, you can always get a description of your location, and the items there, by typing LOOK. In SUPERBRIEF mode, the blank line between turns will be eliminated. This mode is meant for adventurers who are already very familiar with the geography. Also see VERBOSE and BRIEF.

UNSCRIPT -- This commands your printer to stop making a transcript.

VERBOSE -- This tells ZORK that you want a complete description of each location and the objects in it every time you enter a location, even if you’ve been there before. Also see BRIEF and SUPERBRIEF.

VERSION -- ZORK responds by showing you the release number and the serial number of your copy of the story. Please include this information if you ever report a "bug" in ZORK.

WAIT -- This will cause time in the story to pass. Normally, between turns, nothing happens in the story. You could leave your computer, take a nap and return to the story to find that nothing has changed. You can use WAIT to make time pass in the story without doing anything. For example, if you encounter an alien being, you could WAIT to see what it will do. Or, if you are in a moving vehicle, you could WAIT to see where it will go. You can abbreviate WAIT to Z.



---------

Page 8


Appendix C: Some Recognized Verbs

This is only a partial list of the verbs that all three ZORK adventures understand. There are many more. Remember that you can use a variety of prepositions with them. For example, LOOK can become LOOK INSIDE, LOOK BEHIND, LOOK UNDER, LOOK THROUGH, LOOK AT and so on.

ANSWER      FOLLOW    SAY 
ATTACK      GIVE      SEARCH 
BLOW        INFLATE   SHAKE 
BREAK       JUMP      SLIDE 
BURN        KICK      SMELL 
CLIMB       KNOCK     STAY 
CLOSE       LIGHT     STRIKE 
COUNT       LISTEN    SWIM 
CROSS       LOCK      TAKE 
CUT         LOOK      TELL 
DEFLATE     LOWER     THROW 
DIG         MOVE      TIE 
DRINK       OPEN      TOUCH 
DROP        POUR      TURN 
EAT         PRAY      UNLOCK 
ENTER       PULL      WAKE 
EXAMINE     PUSH      WALK 
EXIT        PUT       WAVE
EXTINGUISH  RAISE     WEAR 
FILL        READ      WIND



---------

Page 9


Appendix D: ZORK Complaints

ZORK will complain if you type a sentence that confuses it completely. ZORK will then ignore the rest of the input line. (Unusual events, such as being attacked, may also cause ZORK to ignore the rest of the sentences you typed, since the event may have changed your situation drastically.) Some of ZORK's complaints:

I DON'T KNOW THE WORD "(your word)."
The word you typed is not in the story's vocabulary. Sometimes using a synonym or rephrasing will help. If not, ZORK probably doesn't know the idea you were trying to get across.

YOU USED THE WORD "(your word)" IN A WAY THAT I DON'T UNDERSTAND.
ZORK knows the word you typed, but couldn’t use it in that sense. Usually this is because ZORK knows the word as a different part of speech. For example, if you typed PRESS THE LOWER BUTTON, you are using LOWER as an adjective, but ZORK might know LOWER only as a verb, as in LOWER THE ROPE.

THAT SENTENCE ISN'T ONE I RECOGNIZE.
The sentence you typed may have been gibberish, such as GIVE TROLL WITH SWORD. Or, you may have typed a reasonable sentence but used a syntax that ZORK does not recognize, such as SMELL UNDER THE ROCK. Try rephrasing the sentence.

THERE WAS NO VERB IN THAT SENTENCE!
Unless you are answering a question, each sentence must have a verb (or a command) in it somewhere.

THERE SEEMS TO BE A NOUN MISSING IN THAT SENTENCE!
This usually means that your sentence was incomplete, such as EAT THE BLUE.

THERE WERE TOO MANY NOUNS IN THAT SENTENCE.
An example is PUT THE SOUP IN THE BOWL WITH THE LADLE, which has three noun "phrases," one more than ZORK can digest in a single action.

I BEG YOUR PARDON?
You hit the RETURN (or ENTER) key without typing anything.

IT'S TOO DARK TO SEE.
In the story, there was not enough light to perform your action.

I DON'T SEE WHAT YOU ARE REFERRING TO.
You used HIM, HER or IT, but ZORK isn't sure what person or object you meant.

YOU CAN'T SEE ANY "(object)" HERE!
The item you referred to was not visible. It may be somewhere else, inside a closed container, and so on.

THE OTHER OBJECT(S) THAT YOU MENTIONED ISN'T (AREN'T) HERE.
You referred to two or more items in the same sentence, and at least one of them wasn't visible to you in your present location.

YOU CAN'T GO THAT WAY.
There was no passage or exit in the direction you tried to move.

YOU CAN’T USE MULTIPLE (IN)DIRECT OBJECTS WITH "(your verb)." You can refer to several items at the same time only with certain verbs. Among the more useful of these verbs are TAKE, DROP and PUT. This restriction also applies to the use of ALL, as in DROP ALL. For example, ATTACK will not work with multiple objects; you couldn't say ATTACK ALL or ATTACK THE WARLOCK AND THE ENCHANTER.



---------

Page 10


Appendix E: Sample Transcript and Map

This transcript is not from any of the ZORK adventures, but it does show most of the usual things you can do in ZORK. It contains several simple puzzles and their solutions, and it will give you a good idea of how Infocom's interactive fiction works. The player's sentences appear in capital letters after each prompt (>). The map represents the terrain in the sample transcript as you might have drawn it.

[Sample map not included]


> APPLY THE BRAKES
The Frobozz Magic Go-Cart coasts to a stop.

Moss-lined Tunnel, in the Go-Cart
This is a long east-west tunnel whose walls are covered with green and yellow mosses.
There is a jewel-studded monkey wrench here. (outside the Go-Cart)
A bent and rusted monkey wrench is lying here. (outside the Go-Cart)

> TAKE THE WRENCH
Which wrench do you mean, the jeweled monkey wrench or the rusty monkey wrench?

> JEWELED
You can't reach it from inside the Go-Cart.

> WEST
You're not going anywhere until you stand up.

> GET OUT OF THE GO-CART
You are on your own feet again.

> TAKE THE JEWELED WRENCH
Taken.

> WEST
Lumber Yard
This is a huge room lined with metal shelves. There are exits to the east, northeast, and west.
There is a small cardboard box here.
Piled on one of the shelves is a supply of lumber.

> TAKE THE BOX AND THE LUMBER
small cardboard box: Taken.
supply of lumber: Your load is too heavy.

> INVENTORY
You are carrying:
   a lamp (providing light)
   a glass jar
   The glass jar contains:
      a quantity of pomegranate juice
   a jeweled monkey wrench
   a dart gun
   a small cardboard box

> DROP THE DART GUN
Dropped.

> TAKE THE LUMBER
Taken.

> LOOK INSIDE THE BOX
The small cardboard box is closed.

> OPEN IT
Opening the small cardboard box reveals a bunch of two-inch nails.

> EXAMINE THE LUMBER
It consists of two rectangular pieces of wood, about 10 feet long, and perhaps a dozen shorter dowel-shaped pieces.

> WALK NORTHEAST
Foreman's Office
This is the office of the lumber yard foreman. The only exit is to the southwest.

> SW
Lumber Yard
There is a dart gun here.

> WALK WEST
Carpentry Shop
You are in a room furnished with wooden shelves, cabinets, mantels and moldings, all gracefully carved out of fine wood. An array of precision tools adorns the walls. The only exit is south... unless you want to count the opening in the roof.
A carpenter gnome is sitting here, twiddling his thumbs.

>UP
The opening is too high to reach.

>GNOME, BUILD A LADDER
"I'd be glad to, but not for free!"

> GIVE THE JEWELED MONKEY WRENCH TO THE GNOME
The gnome examines the jeweled monkey wrench carefully. "Thank you," he exclaims, adding it to his collection of tools.

> GNOME, BUILD A LADDER
"Oh, yes, your ladder. Unfortunately, I have no lumber."

> GIVE THE LUMBER TO THE GNOME
The gnome accepts the supply of lumber.

> GNOME, BUILD LADDER
"Darn it! I'm fresh out of nails."

> GIVE NAILS
(to the gnome)
The gnome accepts the bunch of nails.

> GIVE THE LAMP TO THE GNOME
The gnome attempts to build a beautiful set of kitchen cabinets out of the lamp. Finally, he gives up and hands it back to you.

> GNOME, BUILD LADDER
The gnome grumbles but constructs a handsome wooden ladder. He admires his handiwork and hands you the ladder.

> PUT THE LADER THROUGH THE HOLE
I don't know the word "lader."

> PUT THE LADDER THROUGH THE HOLE
The ladder is now resting against the rim of the hole.

> UP
You're carrying too much to climb a ladder.

>I
You are carrying:
   a lamp (providing light)
   a glass jar
   The glass jar contains:
      a quantity of pomegranate juice
  a small cardboard box

> DROP ALL BUT THE LAMP
glass jar: Dropped.
small cardboard box: Dropped.

> LOOK
Carpentry Shop
You are in a room furnished with wooden shelves, cabinets, mantels and moldings, all gracefully carved out of fine wood. An array of precision tools adorns the walls. The only exit is south... unless you want to count the opening in the roof.
A carpenter gnome is sitting here, twiddling his thumbs.
There is a glass jar here.
The glass jar contains:
   a quantity of pomegranate juice
There is a small cardboard box here.

> UP
Monster's Lair
This is the den of the dreaded Seven-Headed Snow Monster of Snurth. It is quite chilly in here, and ice covers the floor and walls. A ladder protrudes from a hole in the ground, and sunlight comes from the cave entrance to the east.
The Snow Monster, bellowing loudly, blocks the eastern exit.

> DOWN.SOUTH.TAKE DART GUN.WEST.UP
Carpentry Shop
A carpenter gnome is sitting here, twiddling his thumbs.
There is a glass jar here.
The glass jar contains:
  a quantity of pomegranate juice
There is a small cardboard box here.

Lumber Yard
There is a dart gun here.

Taken.

Carpentry Shop
A carpenter gnome is sitting here, twiddling his thumbs.
There is a glass jar here.
The glass jar contains:
   a quantity of pomegranate juice
There is a small cardboard box here.

Monster's Lair
The Snow Monster, bellowing loudly, blocks the eastern exit.

> SHOOT MONSTER
What do you want to shoot the monster with?

> DART GUN
The Snow Monster clutches at the dart and then keels over. His body vanishes in a cloud of acrid black smoke.

> EAST
Orange Grove
A path leads northeast through this small grove of orange trees. A dark cave lies to the west. A sign is posted near the grove.

> READ THE SIGN
"Warning! These are poisonous oranges, not meant for human consumption.
         -- Farmer Bozbar"

> EAT AN ORANGE
Aaarrrr! It burns your tongue and your throat!
***You have died***

A forest sprite appears, looking concerned. "You've done it again," says the sprite, with a mixture of sympathy and disgust. "I'll give you only one more chance." She sprinkles some fairy dust on you…

Wooden Bridge
There is a lamp here.

> LOOK
Wooden Bridge
You are on a sturdy bridge leading northeast to southwest. The river below flows quickly amongst pointy rocks.
There is a lamp here.



---------

Page 11


Appendix F: We're Never Satisfied

Here at Infocom, we take great pride in the quality of our stories. Even after they're "out the door," we're constantly improving, honing and perfecting.

Your input is important. No matter how much testing we do, it seems that some "bugs" never crawl into view until thousands of you begin doing all those wild and crazy things to the story. If you find a bug, or if you think a certain puzzle was too hard or too easy, or if you have some other suggestion, or if you'd just like to tell us your opinion of ZORK, drop us a note! We love every excuse to stop working, and a letter from you is just such an excuse! Write to:

INFOCOM, INC.
125 CambridgePark Drive
Cambridge, MA 02140
Attn: DIMWIT FLATHEAD



Appendix G: If You Have Technical Problems

You can call the Infocom Technical Support Team to report bugs and technical problems, but not for hints to solve puzzles, at (617) 576-3190. If your disk develops a problem within ninety (90) days after purchase, we will replace it at no charge. Otherwise, there is a replacement fee of $5.00 (U.S. currency). If you call to report a bug, please provide your release number, which you can find by typing VERSION. Please return your registration card if you'd like to be on our mailing list and receive our newsletter, THE NEW ZORK TIMES.



---------

Page 12

Appendix H: Author Biographies

Marc Blank. A graduate of MIT and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Marc has been involved in writing interactive fiction since its formative period in the late 1970s. Co-author of the original mainframe version of ZORK in 1977, he was instrumental in laying the groundwork for the appearance of interactive fiction on personal computers in the early 1980s. He is co-author of ZORK I, ZORK II, ZORK III and ENCHANTER (R), and is sole author of DEADLINE (R), the first interactive mystery. His continuing work in interactive technologies in large part made Infocom's name synonymous with interactive fiction. His mother still wishes he would practice medicine.

Dave Lebling. Dave Lebling was born in Washington, D.C. and grew up in suburban Maryland. He attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and worked at MIT's Laboratory for Computer Science, where he developed an interest in computer entertainments. He was a co-author of the original mainframe ZORK. He has co-authored ZORK I, ZORK II, ZORK III and ENCHANTER, and written STARCROSS (R) on his own. He is married and lives in a suburb of Boston, where his appetite for the printed word is restrained only by the volume of his house.



---------

Page 13

Appendix I: Warranty and Copyright Information

Limited Warranty

This software product and the attached instructional materials are sold "AS IS," without warranty as to their performance. The entire risk as to the quality and performance of the computer software program is assumed by the user.

However, to the original purchaser of a disk prepared by Infocom and carrying the Infocom label on the disk jacket, Infocom, Inc. warrants the medium on which the program is recorded to be free from defects in materials and faulty workmanship under normal use and service for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of purchase. If during this period a defect on the medium should occur, the medium may be returned to Infocom, Inc. or to an authorized Infocom, Inc. dealer, and Infocom, Inc. will replace the medium without charge to you. Your sole and exclusive remedy in the event of a defect is expressly limited to replacement of the medium as provided above. This warranty gives you specific legal rights and you may also have other rights which vary from state to state.

THE ABOVE WARRANTIES FOR GOODS ARE IN LIEU OF ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND OF ANY OTHER WARRANTY OB-LIGATION ON THE PART OF INFOCOM, INC. SOME STATES DO NOTALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. IN NO EVENT SHALL INFOCOM, INC. OR ANYONE ELSE WHO HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN THE CREATION AND PRODUCTION OF THIS COMPUTER SOFTWARE PROGRAM BE LIABLE FOR INDIRECT, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SUCH AS, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, LOSS OF ANTICIPATED PROFITS OR BENEFITS RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS PROGRAM, OR ARISING OUT OF ANY BREACH OF THIS WARRANTY. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. 

N.B. After the warranty period, a defective Infocom disk may be returned to Infocom, Inc. with a check or money order for $5.00 (U.S. currency) for replacement.


Copyright

The enclosed software product is copyrighted and all rights are re-served by Infocom, Inc. It is published exclusively by Infocom, Inc. The distribution and sale of this product are intended for the use of the original purchaser only and for use only on the computer system specified. Lawful users of this program are hereby licensed only to read the program from its medium into memory of a computer solely for the purpose of executing the program. Copying (except for one backup copy on those systems which provide for it--see Reference Card), duplicating, selling, or otherwise distributing this product is a violation of the law.

This manual and all other documentation contained herein are copyrighted and all rights are reserved by Infocom, Inc. These documents may not, in whole or in part, be copied, photocopied, reproduced, translated, or reduced to any electronic medium or machine-readable form without prior consent, in writing, from Infocom, Inc.

Willful violations of the Copyright Law of the United States can result in civil damages of up to $50,000 in addition to actual damages, plus criminal penalties of up to one year imprisonment and/or $10,000 fine.

ZORK, DEADLINE, ENCHANTER and STARCROSS are registered trademarks of Infocom, Inc.

(C) 1984 Infocom, Inc.
Printed in U.S.A.

(C) 2001 Activision, Inc. Reproduced with permission. All right reserved.
