SUNDIAL
Man first conceptualized time
as consisting of only two units ·
day and night. Then came the
understanding thal daytime could
be separated into smaller units
marked by the shadows cast by the sun on its path from swuise ta
sunset. The sundial evolved as a means of indicating the passage of
time according to these units.

1. Carefully cut out the two shapes.
Make sure NOT to cut at the doued line.
2. To form the gnomon (triangular
shaped object), fold along the
dotted line.
3. Carefully cut a slot through the eye on the
base. The black bar through the eye represents
the location of where the slot should be.
4, To attach the gnomon to the base, insert flaps
A and B into the slot, taping the flaps to the underside.
5. To complete the sundial, fold the base along
its center line. Secure with tape or glue.

--

Time is out of joint; 
O cursed spite, That ever I was 
born to set it right! 
  --Hamlet I.v. 
  
It's the last day of your $599 London 
vacation. Unfortunately, it's also the first 
day of World War III. Only seconds 
remain before an H-bomb vaporizes the 
city...and you with it. 
Unless you escape to another time, 
another dimension. 
For every atomic explosion unlocks 
the door to a secret universe; a plane 
between fantasy and reality, filled with 
curious artifacts and governed by its own 
mischievous logic. You'll crisscross time 
and space as you explore this fascinating 
universe, learning to control its 
inexorable power. 
Trinity leads you on a journey back to 
the dawn of the atomic age...and puts the 
course of history in your hands. 
  
GET INSIDE A STORY. 
GET ONE FROM INFOCOM. 
It's like waking up inside a story! Load 
Infocom's interactive fiction into your 
computer and discover yourself at the 
center of a world jam-packed with 
surprising twists, unique characters, and 
original, logical, often hilarious puzzles. 
For the first time, you're more than a 
passive reader. You can talk to the story, 
typing in full English sentences. And the 
story talks right back, communicating 
entirely in vividly descriptive prose. 
What's more, you can actually shape the 
story's course of events through your 
choice of actions. And you have 
hundreds of alternatives at every step. In 
fact, there's so much you can see and do, 
your adventure and last for weeks and 
even months. 
To find the Infocom interactive story 
that's right for you, just choose any one 
marked with the level of difficulty listed 
below that best matches your current 
level of interactive skill. 
 
Introductory: Best introduction to 
interactive fiction, written with some 
built-in hints. Written for everyone from 
age 9 up. 
 
Standard: This is Infocom's most 
popular level of interactive fiction, 
enjoyed by both first-time and 
experienced players. 
 
Advanced: A greater level of challenge. 
Recommended for those who've already 
experienced Infocom's interactive fiction. 
 
Expert: The ultimate challenge in 
interactive fiction. 
 
Then find out what it's like to get inside a 
story. Get one from Infocom. Because 
with Infocom's interactive fiction, there's 
room for you on every disk.
